+++
title = "Gove names groups as he unveils extremism definition"
date = 'Thu, 14 Mar 2024 13:45:17 GMT'
description = "The communities secretary has told MPs of five groups to be assessed against the new definition."
image = 'Gove_names_groups_as_he_unveils_extremism_definition__2573112602.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Gove names groups as he unveils extremism definition

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Michael Gove has named five groups he said would be assessed against new definition of extremism.
Communities secretary told MPs he had concerns about the Islamist orientation of three of the organisations.
He also named two groups that he said promoted a <bb>#34;Neo-Nazi ideology.
New extremism definition will apply to groups promoting an ideology based on violence, hatred or intolerance.

He said the British National Socialist Movement and Patriotic Alternative would see their activities assessed against the new definition.
His department has not set a precise date for unveiling the list of groups, which it is thought will still be weeks away.
He also named the Muslim Association of Britain, Cage and MEND as organisations that gave rise to concern.
Groups and individuals labelled extremist will have the right to seek reassessment and submit new evidence to a review.

Organisations or individuals added to the list will not be criminalised, unlike terrorist groups.
New unit - the Counter-Extremism Centre of Excellence - has been set up, to gather intelligence and identify extremist groups.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-68564577)
