+++
title = "Chris Mason analysis: Rwanda saga won't be over even when law is passed"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 12:27:38 GMT'
description = "The controversial bill is likely to become law soon but deportation flights won't take off immediately."
image = 'Chris_Mason_analysis_Rwanda_saga_won_t_be_over_even_when_law_is_passed__3546702864.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Chris Mason analysis: Rwanda saga won't be over even when law is passed

Ten votes are expected in the House of Commons later on the government<bb>#39;s plan to send some asylum seekers to Rwanda.
It is nearly two years since Boris Johnson first proposed the idea, to try to put people off attempting dangerous crossings of the English Channel.
The House of Lords has backed ten changes, or amendments, to the proposed new law.
As soon as Wednesday, the bill may complete its parliamentary stages and be ready to become the law of the land.

If it returns there with all of its amendments rejected, around five or six further amendments will be attempted to be attached to it again.
But, as the bill reaches these final parliamentary stages, two things are likely to happen.
A greater number of Conservative peers will be encouraged to turn up to back the legislation.
Estimates vary from a few weeks to a month or more.

Critics will continue to argue it is a political vanity project that will barely do anything to tackle the problem.
There may be ongoing legal challenges which could lead to some people coming back to the UK, even after they have been sent.


