+++
title = "'Untreated trauma led to our soldier son's suicide'"
date = 'Tue, 19 Mar 2024 05:00:30 GMT'
description = "As a study says veterans need better mental health care, bereaved families share their stories."
image = 'Untreated_trauma_led_to_our_soldier_son_s_suicide__1592167376.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# 'Untreated trauma led to our soldier son's suicide'

Kgn Ben Riches was 30 years old when he took his own life.
He had wanted to join the army from a very young age.
His bedroom was covered in military posters, his parents Carolyn and Kev Riches said.
He and his older brother Steve were the first two brothers in 60 years to serve together in a conflict zone.

Ben Riches' drinking was increasing and he was exhibiting unusual behaviour.
His mother said her son was burning his hands under the tap.
Things only got worse after a tour of Afghanistan, his father said.
If you are experiencing any difficulties or want more information, support can be found through the BBC<bb>#39;S Action Line.

Ben Riches was medically discharged from the army and struggled to engage with mental health services.
His dad asked for help from senior officers at Catterick but was told there was nothing they can do unless he goes and asks for help himself.
Mrs Riches said: <bb>#34;We didn<bb>#39;t get Ben back after Afghanistan.
The One Is Too Many study was carried out by Northumbria University.

Hundreds of families described disjointed, overstretched and inconsistent mental health services as well as a lack of understanding of military life and personnel.
Researchers said aim of the study was not to apportion blame, but to find out why veterans were slipping through the net.
The government said it would review the university<bb>#39;s research and work to ensure veterans can access the right support.
Mark Rodhouse joined the army at a young age.

He loved fitness, and enjoyed cycling.
His mother said: "If we want to save lives, then families need to be involved" After 18 years of service, Sgt Rodhouse was medically discharged in 2005 due in part to his anxiety.
He snowboarded and skied within the army at championship levels.
His wife Sharon Rodhouse, from Penrith in Cumbria, said her husband found it difficult to talk about.

In 2023, some 18 years after leaving the military, Mr Rodman took his own life.
He had told mental health professionals he had suicidal thoughts but did not intend to act on them.
He said: "There were so many missed opportunities.
I have to live with that" The British Army said its thoughts remained with the family and friends of Ben Riches.

The Army said it had improved the support provided to people suffering from mental health issues.
It said it wanted people to recognise the signs of mental health distress and to seek help earlier.
For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.


