+++
title = "Speculation mounts over who will be next James Bond"
date = 'Tue, 19 Mar 2024 10:53:15 GMT'
description = "Marvel star Aaron Taylor-Johnson is in the frame as the next actor playing James Bond, reports say."
image = 'Speculation_mounts_over_who_will_be_next_James_Bond__2942228860.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Speculation mounts over who will be next James Bond

British actor Aaron Taylor-Johnson has been offered the role.
Daniel Craig left the role in 2021 after starring in five films over 16 years.
The next bond film will be the 26th, after No Time to Die.
The Sun has reported the Kick-Ass and Marvel films actor has been formally offered the job.

Taylor-Johnson, 33, starred as John Lennon in the biopic Nowhere Boy in 2009.
He also starred in thriller Nocturnal Animals, which he won a Golden Globe for in 2017.
The BBC has approached Taylor-Johnson and Eon Productions for comment.
The actor is favourite with the bookmakers to play the role.

One of the current favourites to take on the role is Super Man and Mission: Impossible actor Henry Cavill.
Another favourite with the bookies is 32-year-old Damson Idris who starred in US TV crime drama Snowfall.
James Norton, who starred recently in the stage production of A Little Life and was in the cast of 2019 film Little Women, is also thought to be in contention.
The 38-year-old actor has starred in a number of gritty TV dramas including McMafia and Happy Valley.

In 2018 he dispelled rumours that he could be the next Bond, and told the Evening Standard: <bb>#34;There<bb>#39;s an inevitable amount of speculation.
Producers do not necessarily choose the biggest name for the role, after all, Daniel Craig<bb>#39;s name was not at the forefront in the year after Pierce Brosnan’s final Bond film in 2002.
The likes of Tom Hardy, Idris Elba and Chris Evans are other names that have been mentioned.
Elba acknowledged that he might now be <bb>#34;too old<bb>#34;" to take on the role.


