+++
title = "Winnie the Pooh slasher movie named worst film"
date = 'Sat, 09 Mar 2024 11:03:41 GMT'
description = "The horror film won five awards at the ceremony described as the ugly cousin to the Oscars."
image = 'Winnie_the_Pooh_slasher_movie_named_worst_film__1853871676.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC', "oscars"]
+++

# Winnie the Pooh slasher movie named worst film

Winnie the Pooh: Blood and Honey wins five of the 10 categories.
Sylvester Stallone <bb>'s Expend4bles also picked up two awards.
The Razzies name and shame the year’s worst films.
The organisers describe their awards as the <bb>"ugly cousin to the Oscars.

Rhys Frake-Waterfield, who won worst director, has announced a sequel.
Pooh and Piglet, depicted in the film as blood-thirsty killers, also won worst on-screen couple.
US copyright laws, can be held for 95 years.
After that, the characters can be legally shared, performed and reused.

The worst actor award went to Jon Voight for his role as an Irish mobster in Mercy.
A new Mickey-inspired horror game, showing the rodent covered with blood stains, also dropped on the same day.
Worryingly, Winnie the Pooh did not win any awards.
Megan Fox picked up two awards this year - one for worst actress in horror-heist film Johnny <bb>amp; Clyde and the other for worst supporting actress for her role in the Expendables franchise.

Sylvester Stallone, who has been nominated 16 times over the years, win worst supporting actor.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68510904)
