+++
title = "Army's top IRA spy 'cost more lives than he saved'"
date = 'Fri, 08 Mar 2024 17:16:22 GMT'
description = "The Kenova report finds security services did not stop some crimes in order to protect their agents."
image = 'Army_s_top_IRA_spy_cost_more_lives_than_he_saved__3274288484.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Army's top IRA spy 'cost more lives than he saved'

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Operation Kenova investigated the agent known as Stakeknife.
It said speculation he had saved hundreds of lives was wrong.
The £40m investigation took seven years to examine the activities of the spy.
The interim report called for apologies from the UK government and Irish republican leadership.

Operation Kenova linked Stakeknife to at least 14 murders and 15 abduction incidents.
Despite it being widely known that Scappaticci was Stake knife, the Kenova Report did not officially confirm that.
The report's author, senior police officer Jon Boutcher, highlighted many failings of the security forces and the UK government.
The interim report said Stakeknife was a valuable asset to the security forces.

A further, more detailed report is due to be published by the Kenova team later this year.
Mr Boutcher, who is now chief constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI), said claims Stake knife saved hundreds of lives were based on unreliable and speculative assessments.
Mr Boutcher also referred to the decision not to confirm Stakeknife<bb>'s identity in his report.
He said his report confirmed what many families had suspected - patterns of state intervention and non-intervention in the torture and murder of people accused of being state agents.

Among the cases investigated by Operation Kenova was the killing of Caroline Moreland, a Catholic mother of three who was abducted and murdered by the IRA in July 1994.
Her daughter Shauna said her main goal was to get someone to say that her life mattered.
The report called for an apology from the <bb>"republican leadership.
for the IRA<bb>'s abduction, torture and murder of those it accused or suspected of being agents.

Sinn Féin leader Michelle O<bb>'Neill was asked by the BBC if she would apologise.
Since the IRA ended its violent campaign in 2005, the party is now considered the dominant voice representing Irish republicanism.
She apologised for every single loss of life, and that is without exception.
Northern Ireland Secretary Chris Heaton-Harris said the report contained <bb>"several specific, very serious allegations that remain subject to consideration by the courts.

Tánaiste Micheál Martin said Sinn Féin should unreservedly apologise and state unequivocally that the PIRA's activities and actions were wrong.
He said the PPS did not have sufficient resources to progress the Kenova decisions more quickly.
skilled and experienced prosecutors and counsel dedicated the majority of their time, since 2020, to working on these cases, he said.
He said any delay in decision-making was related to inadequate resources.

Freddie Scappaticci joined the IRA in the 1970s and towards the end of that decade was recruited by the Army as an agent.
Throughout the 1980s he operated within the IRA<bb>'s so-called internal security unit - known as thenutting squad.
Its primary purpose was to identify informers who were then kidnapped, tortured and shot dead.
The IRA became suspicious of Stakeknife around 1990 and stood him and his unit down.

He was unmasked in the media in 2003 and although he denied the allegation, he moved into hiding in England where he died in 2023.
The report said victims and families were failed both by the authorities and their communities.
It recommended that 21 June should be a day of remembrance for everyone injured or harmed during the Troubles.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-northern-ireland-68510390)
