+++
title = "What we know about the attack on a Moscow concert hall"
date = 'Sun, 24 Mar 2024 10:18:39 GMT'
description = "More than 100 people were killed when gunmen opened fire inside a packed arena before setting it alight."
image = 'What_we_know_about_the_attack_on_a_Moscow_concert_hall__2900914073.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "ukraine", "russia", "putin", "moscow concert"]
+++

# What we know about the attack on a Moscow concert hall

More than 100 people were killed as gunmen stormed Crocus City Hall.
The Islamic State group has said four of its members carried out the attack.
Video showed at least four people shooting randomly before proceeding into the concert hall itself and opening fire there.
A woman said she and other visitors rushed towards the stage as soon as they realised shots were being fired.

The terrorists used a flammable liquid to set fire to the concert hall.
Flames later engulfed the facade, while glass on the top two floors of the seven-storey building blew out.
More than 6,000 Russians had flocked to the retail and concert complex for the event.
The oldest victim was in her 70s, with three children among the dead.

Many of those killed and wounded came from Krasnogorsk, Khimki and other nearby towns on Moscow<bb>'s north-western fringe.
At least 60 remain in a serious condition and authorities warn more could die.
Russian authorities have not commented on the IS claim.
It comes two weeks after the US warned of a potential attack in Moscow.

The group later released highly graphic footage from the attack.
The video, which has been verified by the BBC, shows one of the gunmen opening fire on several people.
The US had singled out ISIS-Khorasan, an offshoot of IS.
It seeks to establish a Muslim caliphate across Afghanistan, Pakistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Iran.

The Russian authorities have not commented on the IS claim.
Putin said the assailants were caught as they were trying to flee to Ukraine.
CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.

Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.
for next week.
Visit CNN.

com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
We will feature a selection of the best shots from across the globe.


