+++
title = "Ferguson boss sacked as more ferry delays 'likely'"
date = 'Tue, 26 Mar 2024 14:46:19 GMT'
description = "David Tydemen was head of the company building two delayed and over-budget CalMac ferries."
image = 'Ferguson_boss_sacked_as_more_ferry_delays_likely__4111849796.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "business", "economy", "uk"]
+++

# Ferguson boss sacked as more ferry delays 'likely'

Chief executive David Tydeman's contract was terminated by Ferguson Marine.
The board attempt to ensure the company<bb>'s <bb>"long-term future.
The company is building two delayed and over-budget CalMac ferries.
The first of the two ferries is due to be completed by the end of the year.

Mr Tydeman joined the Port Glasgow shipyard in 2022.
The exact reasons for his departure have not been revealed.
It comes as the Scottish government said there would be further delays to the delivery of Glen Sannox.
The cost of the two ferries is running at nearly four times the initial £97m cost.

Board chairman Andrew Miller said: <bb>"Ferguson Marine needs strong leadership to ensure its long-term future.
He said the Marine needs to be able to compete with the best in the world.
Miller added that the Marine needed to have 'strong leadership' to ensure it had a 'long term future' Economy Secretary Mairi McAllan said Mr Tydeman<bb>'s sacking was a matter for the Ferguson board.
She said she was focusing on getting the ferries finished, driving down costs and securing a sustainable future for the yard and workers.

Construction of the two vessels has been plagued by design challenges since the order was placed in 2015.
The first ships ever built by a UK shipyard capable of running on liquefied natural gas (LNG) The company is due to submit a new business case to ministers by the end of March.
It beggars belief that not a single ministerial resignation has been offered when the buck stops with them for years of grotesque mismanagement.
The skilled and dedicated workers at this yard have been badly failed by successive leaderships and by this incompetent SNP government.

The new board must do right by them and secure a thriving future for the yard.
David Tydeman took on what some would consider a near-impossible job.
And he<bb>'s been bundled out after just over two years.
His challenge was immense, and two-fold.

Firstly, to deliver two Calmac ferries which are grossly over-budget and years late.
And secondly, to knock the Ferguson shipyard into shape.
His sacking is apparently for highlighting yet another problem with the timing and cost of these two troubled ferries.
So his sacking seems odd.

Can his replacement hope to do any better?
It's time for a new ferry chief, says Transport Secretary Chris Grayling.


