+++
title = "Navalny ally blames Putin's men for hammer attack"
date = 'Wed, 13 Mar 2024 08:35:13 GMT'
description = "The late Russian opposition leader's aide says his arm was broken and his leg hit with a hammer."
image = 'Navalny_ally_blames_Putin_s_men_for_hammer_attack__930389260.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "russia"]
+++

# Navalny ally blames Putin's men for hammer attack

Leonid Volkov said his arm was broken and his leg hit 15 times with a hammer.
The alleged assailant is unknown, but Mr Volkov says it was politically motivated.
Police have begun an investigation into the attack in Vilnius, Lithuania.
Another Navalny team member posted pictures on social media showing Mr Volakov with a bloodied lower left leg.

Mr Volkov, 43, has lived outside Russia for some years for his own safety.
He served as Navalny<bb>#39;s chief-of-staff until the opposition leader died suddenly in prison in the Russian Arctic last month.
Mr Volkov also faces various politically motivated charges in Russia.
Mr Volkov was chairman of Navalny<bb>#39;s Anti-Corruption Foundation until last year.

He resigned following the revelation he had signed letters calling for the EU to drop some Russian sanctions.
He vowed the attack would not stop his political activism and called on voters in Russia to join a peaceful protest on Sunday.
Despite living outside Russia, Mr Volkov has made sure that the activism of Navalny and his team could continue.
This has included anti-corruption investigations, YouTube videos and livestreams during protests and major events in Russia.

Many more activists moved to join him abroad in 2021 after Navalny<bb>#39;s entire political organisation was labelled <bb>#34;extremist<bb>#34;" and banned.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-68549966)
