+++
title = "Newly-built homes boarded up in Cornish village in planning stalemate"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 08:50:52 GMT'
description = "Devon developer blames Cornwall Council for the site's collapse in a row over affordable housing."
image = 'Newly_built_homes_boarded_up_in_Cornish_village_in_planning_stalemate__2586676276.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "business"]
+++

# Newly-built homes boarded up in Cornish village in planning stalemate

Bridge View claimed council delays and abnormal costs have left it unable to deliver 33 homes in Calstock.
Cornwall Council said it was working with stakeholders to find a solution.
A document published by the council in January 2024, stated there were 160 households on the waiting list for homes in the parish.
The new homes at Bridge View were granted planning permission in 2018.

One of the directors, Michael Wight, said his firm had allocated £2.
8m, for 15 affordable homes but claimed council delays then cost the firm £1.
2m in interest.
Cornwall Council said issues with the development had been <bb>#34;ongoing for several years.

The developers said the latest submission for amendments was submitted to the council in April 2023.
But the planning department did not provide a response until January 2024, longer than the expected 13 weeks.
The developers said they were disappointed by the delay and were looking forward to the response.
The funding for the site expired in October 2023 and by March, in a stalemate with the council, the site was mothballed.

They said that delay alone cost the firm £880,000.
A family-run business, the firm said this was their biggest build to date and they felt the outcome had been 'soul destroying' Southwest investigationsteam.
co.
uk.

Send your investigation ideas to southwestinvestigationsteam@bbc.
com.
For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90 or visit a local Samaritans branch, see www.
samaritans.

org for details.


