+++
title = 'Kate Middletons uncle joins Celebrity Big Brother'
date = 'Mon, 04 Mar 2024 23:08:33 GMT'
description = 'A Strictly dancer, two X-Factor judges and a Love Island winner are among the celebs entering the house.'
image = 'Kate_Middleton_s_uncle_joins_Celebrity_Big_Brother__2338419951.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = "Entertainment"
tags = ["BBC" , "Entertainment", "ukraine"]
+++

# Kate Middleton's uncle joins Celebrity Big Brother

Gary Goldsmith, uncle of Catherine, Princess of Wales, has entered the Celebrity Big Brother house.
He said it is the one show he had previously said he would never do.
X Factor judges Sharon Osbourne and Louis Walsh will also be in the house.
They will be tasked with watching their fellow contestants and rating them.

The series started on Monday and is hosted by AJ Odudu and Will Best.
Fern Britton is best known for being one of the former hosts of ITV<bb>'s daytime show, This Morning.
The Irish panellist worked as a mentor for JLS in 2008 and was also the manager of boyband Westlife.
Ekin-Su Cülcüloğlu is joining the house following a split from former on-screen partner Davide Sanclimenti.

Colson has previously dabbled in reality TV and in May 2022 appeared as a contestant on sporting series The Games.
She also recently appeared on the US version of The Traitors.
He said introduced himself on the show as the <bb>"uncle to the future queen of our country.
In 2017,  he was fined £5,000 and handed a community order after he admitted punching his wife in the face during an argument.

He added that he would also like to put the record straight on his bad boy reputation.
Marisha is a US actress who is best known for roles in Aladdin and Dreamgirls on Broadway.
She has also appeared in the West End in Hairspray and Waitress.
The Jamaican businessman appeared on the show in 2007.

He has since become a regular on cooking shows, and is worth an estimated £30m.
The 26-year-old Ukrainian dancer has been on the show since 2021.
His dance partners have included Layton Williams and Tilly Ramsay.
He said he was just a <bb>"kid from Ukraine<bb>' looking to accomplish his dreams.

Social media celebrity Zeze Millz rose to fame with her YouTube show.
She received an Olivier Award nomination for best actress in Oklahoma!
Zeze has appeared on a number of British TV shows, including Good Morning Britain and The Victoria Derbyshire Show.
She has interviewed the likes of Akon, N-Dubz and Fireboy DML.

David Potts is no stranger to reality TV having risen to fame on ITV2<bb>'s Ibiza Weekender.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68469116)
