+++
title = "The Brit up for three visual effects Oscars"
date = 'Sat, 09 Mar 2024 01:20:54 GMT'
description = "Neil Corbould says being nominated for three films is quite unbelievable."
image = 'The_Brit_up_for_three_visual_effects_Oscars__2650389500.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# The Brit up for three visual effects Oscars

It<bb>'s not every day you get nominated for an Oscar.
The Oscar nominations were announced on Sunday.
The ceremony will take place in Los Angeles on February 26.
The Oscars will be held at the Dolby Theatre on February 28.

For more information on the Oscars, go to www.
Oscars.
com.
Neil Corbould is recognised for his work on Mission Impossible: Dead Reckoning Part One, The Creator and Napoleon.

The Briton has been nominated for three Oscars in this year<bb>'s visual effects category.
He joked that competing against himself was probably <bb>"the kiss of death.
The first set I saw was the Fortress of Solitude set, with Christopher Reeves flying down the middle of the stage with all the smoke and the dry ice.
We built full-size steam trains, bridges, railway track, a remote control train, and we had one go at it and that<bb>'s it.

Corbould describes long-time collaborator Ridley Scott as <bb>"a genius.
The 86-year-old directed Napoleon starring Joaquin Phoenix and Vanessa Kirby.
Corbould: "Once that train<bb>'s moving.
it was extremely hard to do" The film was made on a relatively low budget, quite the contrast to Mission Impossible and other blockbuster movies Corbould has worked on.

The most challenging thing was the sheer pace and those big staged battles, like Waterloo - it was this massive field in churn and it was a kilometre and a half round to the other side, with the English army on one side and the French on the other.
We had one container and crammed as much stuff into it, smoke machines etc.
Gareth is such a talented director, you have to buy into his way of filmmaking.
I like a challenge!

Corbould says.
He also praised films like Mission Impossible for being so grounded in practical effects.
He says that<bb>'s down to the directors like Chris Nolan, Steven Spielberg and Ridley Scott.
Neil Corbould SFX is the founder of Framestore and DNEG.

He says the visual effects industry in the UK is a very tight community.
He is working on the new Jurassic film with Gareth Edwards.
The release date has already been set for July 2025.
The film is due to be released by Universal Pictures.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68518072)
