+++
title = "Boat Race rowers told not to enter Thames due to high levels of E.coli"
date = 'Wed, 27 Mar 2024 12:26:03 GMT'
description = "Crews have also been warned to cover blisters and wear footwear due to high levels of E. coli."
image = 'Boat_Race_rowers_told_not_to_enter_Thames_due_to_high_levels_of_E_coli__2850911150.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Sports'
tags = ['BBC', "us"]
+++

# Boat Race rowers told not to enter Thames due to high levels of E.coli

Crews warned to cover blisters, and wear footwear when getting in and out of the boat.
Tests indicated bacteria came from sewage directly discharged into the river.
Thames Water said improving river health was a <bb>"key focus for the firm.
The 2024 Boat Race will take place between Oxford and Cambridge.

Rowers from both Oxford and Cambridge universities will take to the iconic 4.
25-mile Championship Course on the Thames on Saturday afternoon.
River Action chief executive James Wallace said: <bb>"It is a tragic situation when elite athletes are issued with health guidance ahead of a historic race on the capital’s river.
River Action, British Rowing and The Rivers Trust say they are asking the government to enforce the law and prosecute polluters.

16 tests around Hammersmith Bridge, in west London, indicated an average of 2,869 E.
coli bacteria.
The bacteria can cause a range of conditions, including urinary tract infections, cystitis and intestinal infections.
River Action recorded 9,801 E.

coli colony-forming units (CFU) per 100ml of water.
To meet the Environment Agency<bb>'s inland bathing water quality standards, the level should be below 1,000 CFU.
This is based on publicly available data that showed the water company had discharged sewage into the Greater London area.
Thames Water have put in place a series of precautionary measures this year to protect the health of our athletes.

This included the covering up of open wounds, regular handwashing, a cleansing station at the finish area and highlighting the risks of entering the water.
Thames Water said: <bb>"We have experienced higher than average long-term rainfall across London and the Thames Valley.
The overflows are designed to operate automatically when the sewer network is about to be overwhelmed.
They then release diluted wastewater into rivers, rather than letting it back up into people<bb>'s homes.

We are working hard to make these discharges unnecessary and have published plans to upgrade over 250 of our sites.


