+++
title = "Drivers warned of delays as Easter getaway set to begin"
date = 'Thu, 28 Mar 2024 10:16:19 GMT'
description = "The RAC warns of carmageddon as heavy traffic is expected during the Easter getaway."
image = 'Drivers_warned_of_delays_as_Easter_getaway_set_to_begin__2012046694.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Automobile'
tags = ['BBC', "us", "uk", "eu"]
+++

# Drivers warned of delays as Easter getaway set to begin

Drivers warned to expect long delays as millions of Britons set off on Easter getaway trips.
Thursday afternoon is expected to be the busiest day for flights and rail passengers.
Strong winds are forecast for the south of England, forcing the closure of a number of tourist attractions.
Elsewhere, spells of dry and fairly sunny weather are expected.

Inrix predict Thursday afternoon will see the worst congestion.
Journeys on the M25, between the M23 for Gatwick the M1 in Hertfordshire, are expected to take over two hours.
11 million people in the UK are planning an overnight trip this Easter.
Manchester Airport said it was preparing for about 320,000 passengers this weekend, 8% more than the equivalent last year.

Easyjet is predicting its busiest ever Easter weekend.
Ryanair issued a warning to travellers on Thursday morning that high winds could disrupt air travel from London.
Network Rail is urging people to check their journey details before they travel.
Network Rail engineering works will close part of the West Coast Main Line.

Avanti West Coast will operate a revised service on its network.
People heading to the Channel Tunnel at the Port of Dover will find the traffic management system Operation Brock in place on the M20.
At peak times over the next few days, Dover has told coach operators that wait times could be up to 2.
5 hours.

Eurotunnel told the BBC it was putting on extra shuttles and staff to cope with expected high numbers.
It has also told operators that even with the right resources in place at the border, wait times may still be 2.
4 hours.
Overnight rain turned to snow in parts of southwest England and Wales.

Europe is contending with Storm Nelson, which was named by Spanish forecasters.
Gusts are likely to reach up to 80mph in France on Thursday.
By Good Friday the UK is set to see a mix of sunshine and showers with the potential for some heavy rain and hail.
You can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.

co.
uk.
Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet:                 @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or video:    https://www.

facebook.
com/bbchaveYourSay/videos?
v=1<bb>hl=en<bb>tweet=%20BBC%20Have%20Your%20Say%20logo.


