+++
title = 'Horner says time to draw a line under controversy'
date = 'Thu, 07 Mar 2024 18:00:50 GMT'
description = 'Christian Horner says it is "time to draw a line under" the controversy over accusations about his behaviour towards a female employee.'
image = 'Horner_says_time_to_draw_a_line_under_controversy__1288828.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Horner says 'time to draw a line under' controversy

Red Bull has suspended the woman who accused Horner of inappropriate behaviour, which he has denied.
Red Bull said it could not comment on the reasons for the woman<bb>'s suspension.
Honda has called for more details about the matter.
Horner said: <bb>"The time now is to draw a line under it.

Horner emphasised that Red Bull's board dismissed the complaint last week.
Red Bull has refused to name the lawyer involved or give any insight into the report compiled, or explain why the decision to dismiss the complaint was made.
Horner, whose wife Geri was in the Spice Girls, added: <bb>"I am fortunate I have a beautiful family and a very supportive wife.
Horner: "It has been very trying, and very challenging.

My wife has been hugely supportive, as has my family" He added: "We need to move forward and focus on what we are here for.
It is time now to focus on Formula 1 racing" Last week, Jos Verstappen, father of Max, said the controversy over Horner was driving people apart.
Horner said: <bb>"I spoke to Jos following the grand prix and it<bb>'s in everybody’s interests collectively that we have agreed to move on and focus on the future.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/formula1/68497997)
