+++
title = "FA defends new England kit over flag design"
date = 'Fri, 22 Mar 2024 16:21:56 GMT'
description = "The FA says it is not the first time different coloured St George's Cross-inspired designs have been used."
image = 'FA_defends_new_England_kit_over_flag_design__1163848282.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Sports'
tags = ['BBC', "us", "uk"]
+++

# FA defends new England kit over flag design

The FA has defended the St George<bb>#39;s Cross design on its new England kit.
The body said it understood what the flag <bb>#34;means to our fans.
It added the fresh 2024 home kit was meant as a tribute to the 1966 World Cup winning team.
Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said he preferred the original and the national flag was a source of pride and identity.

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer told The Sun the <bb>#34;flag is used by everybody, it is a unifier, it doesn<bb>#39;t need to be changed.
The flag traditionally features the St George<bb>#39;s Cross bright red on a white background.
The new design takes creative licence with the cross by adding navy, light blue and purple to the traditional red.
BBC News understands there are no plans to change or recall the shirt.

Listeners from across the UK called Radio 5 Live on Friday to share their opinions on the row.
Bill in Cwmbran said he found the whole thing <bb>#34;utterly hilarious.
Katie in Clitheroe said she was surprised the debate was not focusing on the cost of the kit.
The new kit was debuted on Friday by England<bb>#39;s younger squad.

The England U-21 team played Azerbaijan and won 5-1.
The senior team will wear the kit for the first time on Saturday.
England take on Brazil in a friendly at Wembley Stadium.
Last summer, the sportwear brand was forced to U-turn on its decision not to sell Mary Earps replica goalkeeper shirts, after a public outcry.

In 2010, the home shirts featured a small, multi-coloured St George<bb>#39;s Cross pattern dotted on the shoulders.


