+++
title = "Ukraine-based groups claim raids into Russia"
date = 'Tue, 12 Mar 2024 12:38:53 GMT'
description = "Russian rebel forces claim villages in Kursk and Belgorod areas - Moscow says the attacks failed."
image = 'Ukraine_based_groups_claim_raids_into_Russia__3248728717.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Ukraine-based groups claim raids into Russia

The Freedom of Russia Legion (FRL) and Siberian Battalion (SB) posted videos purportedly showing their fighters in Russia.
The SVR and an exiled Russian politician claimed two villages were now in control of <bb>"liberation forces.
Ukraine's military denied any involvement in Tuesday<bb>'s cross-border raids.
The Il-76 military-transport plane crashed shortly after take-off.

The ministry said an engine fire caused the crash.
Russia said Ukraine had launched 25 drones on targets across Russia, but the attack was thwarted.
However, videos have emerged which appear to show several Russian oil facilities on fire.
Videos have emerged purportedly showing the plane on fire circling in the sky, and later plumes of black smoke from the crash site.

A full-scale invasion of Ukraine launched by Russian President Vladimir Putin is now in its third year.
There are no signs that the biggest war in Europe since World War Two could end soon.
The SB said <bb>"fierce fighting is going on the Russian Federation territory.
It also condemned Russian presidential elections on 15-17 March, in which Mr Putin is widely expected to be declared the winner.

Another Ukraine-based Russian group, the Russian Volunteer Corps (RDK), also published footage.
Russian defence ministry says its forces together with border guards and FSB security service units <bb>"thwarted an attempt by the Kyiv regime to make a breakthrough into Russia.
It said enemy fighters - backed by tanks and armoured personnel carriers - had tried to invade Russia in three directions.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-68541911)
