+++
title = "Son 'numb' as whole-life killer may be released"
date = 'Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:04:11 GMT'
description = "A man sentenced to a whole-life term for murder may be allowed to leave prison on health grounds."
image = 'Son_numb_as_whole_life_killer_may_be_released__2834398493.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "us", "rape", "murder"]
+++

# Son 'numb' as whole-life killer may be released

Victor Farrant was jailed for 12 years in 1988 for rape, false imprisonment, grievous bodily harm and unlawful wounding.
He was released from his sentence in November 1995, and a month later attacked Ann Fidler, at her home in Eastleigh.
The 45-year-old victim was beaten around the head with wine bottles and an iron.
Six weeks later, Farrant murdered Mrs Hoskins, an accountant, by holding her under water in her bath.

She sustained serious head injuries and was found slumped in the kitchen of her home by her husband.
He immediately stole her car and took a ferry to Belgium, before spending five months in hiding using the false name Charles Kelly and a lottery agent's identity card.
The judge at Winchester Crown Court told Farrant: "This murder was so terrible, and you are so dangerous, that in your case the sentence of life should mean just that" Mrs Hoskins' son David was asked if he wanted an exclusion zone and an order not to contact the Hoskins family to be added to the terms of his licence.
Iain<bb>'s sister Katie had arrived home from school to find her mother missing.

She rang her father - who was separated from Glenda - and the pair called the police.
Katie found her mother's body wrapped in a carpet in the converted loft of the house.
Victor Farrant had dated her mother and after they broke up he'd shown up.
The Hoskins family have written to Justice Secretary Alex Chalk and Home Secretary James Cleverly with their concerns about Farrant, who is now in his mid 70s.

The MoJ said prisoners were sometimes freed on compassionate grounds in rare and exceptional cases, after a medical and risk assessment.
A formal meeting between justice officials about the risk posed by Farran is scheduled for early April.
Prisoners are only released on compassionate grounds in exceptional circumstances following strict risk assessments and no formal application has yet been made in this case.
An MoJ spokesperson said: <bb>"Glenda Hoskins<bb>' murder was a horrific crime and our thoughts remain with her family and friends.


