+++
title = "Hong Kong passes tough security law"
date = 'Tue, 19 Mar 2024 11:40:14 GMT'
description = "Authorities say Article 23 is necessary for stability, but critics fear it will further erode civil liberties."
image = 'Hong_Kong_passes_tough_security_law__342131316.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "china"]
+++

# Hong Kong passes tough security law

Article 23 targets new offences like external interference and insurrection.
It was fast-tracked through its final stage by the city<bb>#39;s pro-Beijing parliament in less than two weeks.
Critics fear it will further erode civil liberties in Hong Kong.
It expands on a controversial national security law earlier imposed by China.

Scores of people have been arrested under the NSL since it was passed in 2020.
Critics say it has created a climate of fear.
China<bb>#39;s Vice-Premier Ding Xuexiang earlier said swift enactment of the new legislation would protect national interests.
Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch say the new law is a blow to human rights in Hong Kong.

They are calling on the government to repeal it immediately.
Hong Kongers have also voiced concerns over Article 23, particularly over the use of broad and vague definitions in the legislation.
George said he had observed an <bb>#34;informant culture<bb>#34;" among his colleagues since the earlier law came into force.
He estimates that about one-fifth of the employees in his department have resigned in the past three years, with many of them moving overseas.

Liz has similar concerns over the new offence.
Liz, who has moved to Singapore, is worried that she would be put at risk of being prosecuted whenever her company publishes research reports with her name on them.
Walter, who works at a Western consulate in Hong Kong, said he was more concerned that Hong Kong would lose its competitive edge than for his personal safety.
The bill was tabled again this year, in early March, following a month-long consultation period.

A previous attempt in 2003 stalled amid widespread public protests.
It will become more challenging for Hong Kong to continue taking on the role of a super connector between China and the rest of the world.
Lawmakers completed a review of the bill within days.
The 2003 attempt saw a three-month consultation period.

A member of the public will not commit an offence simply by committing a certain act, but must have the intention of endangering national security in order to be able to contravene the law.


