+++
title = "England kits 'should connect people'"
date = 'Sat, 23 Mar 2024 17:09:30 GMT'
description = "Nike's England kit reignites rows over national identity familiar to designers of previous shirts."
image = 'England_kits_should_connect_people__1738657583.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "us"]
+++

# England kits 'should connect people'

England's new kit has ignited a row about national identity.
Critics have branded the design <bb>"disrespectful' But battles over England shirts have a long and literally colourful back story.
England taking on Brazil at Wembley is one of the great sporting occasions.
Two proud footballing nations boasting instantly recognisable kits.

Manufacturer Nike has changed the cross of St George, with its horizontal bar now a combination of blues and purples rather than the red of the original flag.
Political leaders, including the prime minister and leader of the opposition, have added their voices to a row which has reignited the passions.
The FA said this week that the flag <bb>"unites and inspires us.
Saville felt markedly different in 2010.

He says it had, in his eyes, come to represent a particular type of bloody-minded person - usually with a degree of what we might call aggressive patriotism.
Given the brief of designing a.
34;colourful white strip by then-manufacturer Umbro, he likened the.
job to making a new flag for the nation.

He wanted the shirt to be for everyone because when the national team are playing it is for everyone.
Saville's design process proved intriguing but ultimately dispiriting as, he says, his concept was <bb>"neutralised.
I thought it was pretty topical 10 years ago; maybe it<bb>'s more so now.
I remember at one point a little bit of negative feedback attributed to Fabio Capello.

Whether it was from him or not who knows?
Umbro did not respond to a request for comment on Saville<bb>'s criticisms.
The designer maintains he wanted to capture the pride he feels when he sees the diversity in England teams as they take to the field.
He says some of the reaction - especially on internet forums - was <bb>"eye-opening<bb>"" and 'vitriolic' Nike released its latest England home and away efforts as part of a reported £400m deal with the FA.

The change kit sees purple used for the first time, while the home shirt is marketed as <bb>"a modern take on a classic white strip.
Nike was unable put anyone forward for interview despite requests in the months leading up to the new kit's release.
Dispute over imagery and flags on England shirts stretches back more than 40 years to when Leicestershire-based Admiral broke with a century of tradition to launch a kit with large, distinctive red, white and blue bands below the shoulders.
Umbro's new England kit has been widely criticised for its use of the St George's flag.

Former creative director Rob Warner says the 2012 kit which ditched the use of blue completely was, ironically, just as divisive.
Warner believes the debate is in part affected by the nature of social media and a wider discourse present in the country.
Saville says the flag on the collar is relatively insignificant.
The St George<bb>'s Cross has always been on the shirt.

Saville remains adamant the national side’s kit should be more than a design act.
But, as Admiral and Umbro discovered, these storms pre-date social media.
The national team<bb>'s football kit is something people do pay attention to and there is the potential for it to be about something that connects people.
The shirt is engaged with by the public on a mass scale.

34;One or two you think <bb>#39:it<bb>#38;s ok, but a lot of them are just ugly.


