+++
title = "All you need to know about April train strikes"
date = 'Wed, 20 Mar 2024 14:23:08 GMT'
description = "Train drivers at 16 rail firms are set to stage walkouts in April, with Tube strikes in April and May."
image = 'All_you_need_to_know_about_April_train_strikes__3913213176.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "us", "uk"]
+++

# All you need to know about April train strikes

Train drivers at 16 train firms will take part in rolling one-day walk outs between 5 and 8 April.
London Underground drivers will strike on Monday 8 April and Saturday 4 May.
Aslef members will also refuse to work on rest days from Thursday 4 to Saturday 6 April and from Monday 8 to Tuesday 9 April.
Rail passengers with advance tickets can be refunded fee-free if the train they are booked on is cancelled, delayed or rescheduled due to strikes.

Season ticket holders (flexi, monthly or longer) who cannot travel, can claim 100% compensation for strike dates through the Delay Repay scheme.
Train operators say ways of working need to change for wages to rise.
Department for Transport says the union needs to do the <bb>#34;right thing<bb>#34: and give members a vote.
Unions in disputes need to re-ballot members every six months.

Aslef members at 11 other rail companies backed a continuation of strikes.
They overwhelmingly voted in favour of further walkouts, though no dates have been confirmed.
Currently, few or no services usually run when train drivers strike.
But a new law means companies can require enough staff to work on strike days.

ONS says median pay for train and tram drivers is just under £59,000.
RMT union says that figure is too high because it does not include rail cleaning staff.
Average salary of rail workers in 2022 was £45,919, according to ONS.
If drivers are excluded (because they tend to be members of the Aslef union, not RMT) its estimate is £39,518.

You can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.
co.
uk.
Please include your name, age and location with any submission.

You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: ipient+44 7756 165803Tweet:                 @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or video.


