+++
title = "Terminally ill apartment owner wants day in court"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 06:17:34 GMT'
description = "Denise Patrick, 68, had to leave her Victoria Square property when it was deemed defective in 2019."
image = 'Terminally_ill_apartment_owner_wants_day_in_court__1293648603.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "cancer"]
+++

# Terminally ill apartment owner wants day in court

Denise Patrick, 68, fears she will not live to see a new case for compensation go to trial.
That would require legislative change.
Owners of the apartments were told to evacuate the building in 2019.
Their bid for compensation was struck out by a High Court judge.

Denise Patrick said she is begging politicians to enable her to have her day in court - but if she is not alive to see that day, she asked that her interview given to BBC Good Morning Ulster be played to the court.
The builders of the apartments, which opened in 2008, Farrans and Gilbert and Ash, have denied any liability.
Residents were told to vacate their homes in April due to cracks in the walls.
They have been forced to pay rent, utility bills and other costs.

The residents are now fighting to get their homes back.
They are calling for the building to be returned to its original state.
Ms Patrick, was a headteacher in London before coming to live in Belfast after her retirement.
She said some of the ways the issue had been handled were shameful - including residents having to continue to pay rates for apartments they could not live in.

34;I just want you to know that this has impacted me.
You didn<bb>#39;t cause the cancer but you exacerbated my cancer.
Communities Minister Gordon Lyons confirmed his department would take on responsibility.
He said: <bb>#34;I have spoken with [Daera] Minister Muir in relation to the Defective Premises Order and agreed the transfer of functions to my department, subject to executive and assembly approval.


