+++
title = "King greets well-wishers after Easter service"
date = 'Sun, 31 Mar 2024 12:46:14 GMT'
description = "The King, who is being treated for cancer, smiled and shook people's hands after the Windsor service."
image = 'King_greets_well_wishers_after_Easter_service__2329021634.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "cancer", "us", "uk"]
+++

# King greets well-wishers after Easter service

The King spoke to crowds and shook people<bb>'s hands after the Easter Sunday service in Windsor.
He was accompanied by Queen Camilla.
The Prince and Princess of Wales did not attend, as Catherine continues her cancer treatment.
The King's first major public appearance since being diagnosed with cancer.

The King has continued some work since his diagnosis, but all engagements so far have taken place in private.
People from New Zealand and the US were among the visitors to Windsor.
The King seemed to enjoy the walkabout and it was a positive sign that he felt able to shake hands and chat to the crowd.
The King was earlier seen arriving for the service in a car with Queen Camilla.

The Duke and Duchess of Edinburgh, their son James, Princess Anne and her husband Sir Timothy Laurence were all seen arriving just before the King and Queen.
The King has not been at public events this year.
Cancer was detected while he was undergoing treatment for an enlarged prostate in January.
Buckingham Palace has confirmed it is not prostate cancer.

He missed the traditional Maundy Thursday service, which was instead attended by Queen Camilla.
He attended church in Sandringham in February, shortly after his diagnosis.
Queen Camilla has led the line for the royals for the past few months.
Prince William has kept up projects such as Earthshot and Homewards.

It is not known how future key dates in the royal calendar will be represented by members of the Royal Family.


