+++
title = "Man given 'wife's ashes' before her cremation"
date = 'Wed, 20 Mar 2024 18:51:19 GMT'
description = "Legacy funeral home gave Peter Welburn a box of ashes 25 days before his wife was cremated, he says."
image = 'Man_given_wife_s_ashes_before_her_cremation__3150358607.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Man given 'wife's ashes' before her cremation

Peter Welburn paid £1,900 to Legacy Independent Funeral Directors for his wife Shirley<bb>#39;s funeral.
He claims he received the ashes on 23 December but said he was told this week that his wife was not cremated until 16 January.
Humberside Police have launched an investigation into the funeral directors.
Shirley Welburn, 72, died in Hull Royal Infirmary on 25 November.

Her funeral was held at Legacy<bb>#39;s branch in Hessle Road, Hull.
The force later said 35 bodies and a quantity of ashes had been removed from the premises.
Mr Welburn said: "We had what we thought were Shirley<bb>#34;s ashes around the Christmas tree" Shirley Welburn died at Hull Royal Infirmary in November.
Husband Peter Welburn paid Legacy Independent Funeral Directors £1,900 for her funeral.

Mr Welburn said he was told by Robert Bush, a director of Legacy, it would be cheaper to use Cottingley Hall Crematorium, 60 miles away in Leeds.
The walls of Mr Welburn<bb>#39;s home are covered with photographs of his wife of 33 years, with whom he had four children.
He said he has felt a mix of emotions, ranging from deep sorrow to extreme anger.
Humberside Police said they are not in a position to comment on individual circumstances.

Leeds City Council says it is 'extremely distressing time' for all involved.
Officers from bereavement services team are assisting with the ongoing investigation.
A 46-year-old man and a woman, 23, arrested on suspicion of prevention of a lawful and decent burial.
They remain on bail as police inquiries continue.


