+++
title = "Actress Helen Flanagan reveals psychosis episode"
date = 'Thu, 28 Mar 2024 11:40:41 GMT'
description = "The ex-Coronation Street star says reaction to her ADHD medication brought on temporary psychosis."
image = 'Actress_Helen_Flanagan_reveals_psychosis_episode__3710545565.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "us", "uk"]
+++

# Actress Helen Flanagan reveals psychosis episode

Helen Flanagan said she had been emotionally struggling after splitting with her long-term partner 18 months ago.
The actress, 33, best known for her role as Rosie Webster in Coronation Street, broke up with footballer Scott Sinclair in October 2022.
In her first Instagram post since January, she wrote: <bb>"Had a few months off from social but I<bb>'m back now.
I had a lot of difficult things going on things I just can<bb>'t talk about on Instagram.

I felt really not great in my head over Christmas and I didn't really feel that much different when I took the kids away for new year.
She added that in the run-up to her theatre tour, which she was excited about, she had felt terrible.
Flanagan was replaced in role of Miss Scarlett in the UK tour of Cluedo 2 by Strictly Come Dancing winner Ellie Leach.
It was announced that Flanagan had withdrawn from the show for <bb>"medical reasons.

She said she was now in a 'really good happy place' and has found therapy to be 'amazing' CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
We will feature a selection of the best shots from across the globe.


