+++
title = "Haiti's prime minister resigns as law and order collapse"
date = 'Tue, 12 Mar 2024 07:18:32 GMT'
description = "Ariel Henry agrees to resign after Caribbean leaders held talks in Jamaica."
image = 'Haiti_s_prime_minister_resigns_as_law_and_order_collapse__4158602344.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Haiti's prime minister resigns as law and order collapse

Mr Henry is currently stranded in Puerto Rico after being prevented by armed gangs from returning home.
It comes after regional leaders met in Jamaica on Monday to discuss a political transition in Haiti.
In a video address announcing his resignation, Mr Henry urged Haitians to remain calm.
He said: "I want to thank the Haitian people for the opportunity I had been granted" The country has been in a state of emergency since the death of former President Jovenel Moïse in July.

Many Haitians had been calling for an elected president to be restored to the country.
A curfew has been put in place in the capital, Port-au-Prince, for a month.
Gangs are now pushing to be part of any new power-sharing deal, Pierre says.
He adds that such a political settlement was impossible without an international armed force.

The police force is weak, and more than 40 police stations [are] destroyed.
The army is very limited and not equipped' The Caricom group of Caribbean nations had made its position clear that he was seen as an impediment to Haiti<bb>'s stability.
The White House had initially wanted to see Mr Henry return to Haiti to oversee the transitional process, but the ferocity of fighting in the country changed minds in Washington.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken committed a further $100m (£78m) to the 1,000-strong UN-backed security force Kenya is expected to lead in Haiti.

Mr Henry had first made the decision to step down on Friday but he had waited for an official announcement so talks could take place.
Council has been mandated to appoint an interim prime minister.
Anyone intending to run in Haiti<bb>'s next elections will not be able to participate.
Haiti is the poorest nation in the Americas.

An earthquake in 2010 killed more than 200,000 people and caused extensive damage to infrastructure and the economy.
The country is wracked by unrest and gang violence.
Amid political stalemate, the country continues to be wracked with unrest.
The country is still in the throes of a political and economic stalemate.

It is also in the midst of a civil war that has killed thousands.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-68541349)
