+++
title = "Women waiting 10 years for endometriosis diagnosis"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 06:04:59 GMT'
description = "New figures show the average wait in Wales to have the condition diagnosed is the longest in the UK."
image = 'Women_waiting_10_years_for_endometriosis_diagnosis__2144891144.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Women waiting 10 years for endometriosis diagnosis

It now takes almost a year more than before 2020 to be diagnosed.
The wait in Wales is also the longest in the UK, according to Endometriosis UK.
The Welsh government wants to cut the waiting list to a year by 2025.
For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or see www.

samaritans.
org.
The disease causes tissue similar to the lining of the womb to build up in other organs, such as the ovaries or fallopian tubes.
Tissue builds up every month, and then breaks down and bleeds.

Ms Bates said she <bb>#34;knew there was something wrong, but explained her diagnosis was accidental.
Almost half of all respondents (47%) had visited their GP 10 or more times with symptoms prior to receiving a diagnosis.
78% of people who later went on to receive a diagnosis of endometriosis were told by doctors they were making a <bb>#34;fuss about nothing.
Lowri Shepstone, from Brecon, Powys, had to wait 17 years for a diagnosis.

She said she was sick of hearing she had a low pain threshold.
34;We<bb>#39;re taught to believe agonising period pain is normal pain.
Ms Davies is due to undergo a third laparoscopy next month to remove tissue.
She said daily pain made every day a struggle, even leaving her feeling suicidal.

Ms Shepstone also pointed out women suffering from endometriosis suffer from <bb>#34;endo belly, caused by bloating.
Three new Endometriosis UK volunteer groups will offer help for people with the condition.
Charity Fair Treatment for the Women of Wales says one nurse per health board is woefully inadequate.
Welsh government says it has funded dedicated endometriotic nurses within each health board across NHS Wales.


