+++
title = "Did Russia ignore US 'extremist' attacks warning?"
date = 'Sat, 23 Mar 2024 14:28:44 GMT'
description = "The attack on a concert hall in Moscow raises difficult questions for Putin at a time of global mistrust."
image = 'Did_Russia_ignore_US_extremist_attacks_warning__3383637145.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "ukraine", "russia", "putin"]
+++

# Did Russia ignore US 'extremist' attacks warning?

Washington issued a warning to its own citizens on 7 March.
It warned of reports that extremists had plans to target large gatherings.
It specifically mentioned concerts and advised Americans in the city to avoid large gatherings over the coming 48 hours.
It seems clear Washington had some kind of intelligence and that it related to Islamic State.

The US government also shared this information with Russian authorities in accordance with its long-standing <bb>#39;duty to warn policy, a US official said.
Three days before the attack, Russian President Vladimir Putin addressed the board of Russia's Federal Security Service (FSB), whose job is to defend the country.
He claimed that Ukraine had switched to what he called <bb>#34;terrorist tactics.
The top priority, he told the assembled leaders of the security service, was to support the special military operation - the official phrase for the full-scale invasion of Ukraine.

We do not yet know the exact nature of the information the US possessed or passed.
The branch suspected of the Moscow attack was also linked to one on US forces and civilians at Kabul airport in August 2021.
But if the intelligence that was shared with Russia was credible and specific about IS, then the FSB and Mr Putin might appear to be on the back foot about why they did not take it more seriously.


