+++
title = 'Two killed in Houthi missile attack on ship - US officials'
date = 'Wed, 06 Mar 2024 17:50:38 GMT'
description = 'The sailors deaths are the first resulting from an attack on a merchant vessel by the Yemeni group.'
image = 'Two_killed_in_Houthi_missile_attack_on_ship_US_officials__3934124244.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = 'BBC'
+++

# Two killed in Houthi missile attack on ship - US officials

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

The Barbados-flagged True Confidence had been abandoned and was drifting with a fire on board.
It was hit in the Gulf of Aden at about 09:30 GMT.
The Houthis say their attacks are to support the Palestinians in the war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza.
The True Confidence had a crew of 20, comprising one Indian, four Vietnamese and 15 Filipino nationals.

Three armed guards - two from Sri Lanka and one from Nepal - were also on board.
The bulk carrier had been sailing to Jeddah in Saudi Arabia from Lianyungang in China.
US forces shot down a ballistic missile and three drones launched from Yemen at the destroyer USS Carney.
On Sunday, a Belize-flagged cargo ship, Rubymar, sank in the Red Sea two weeks after hit by missiles fired by Houthis.

It was the first ship to have been sunk since the Houthi attacks began in November.
The vessel was carrying 21 tonnes of ammonium nitrate fertiliser.
The crew was rescued and the vessel began slowly taking on water.
US and British forces have responded to the drone and missile attacks on merchant vessels passing through the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden.

But so far the Houthis have not been deterred.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-68490695)
