+++
title = "‘Having a certificate of loss proves my baby existed’"
date = 'Sun, 24 Mar 2024 00:46:27 GMT'
description = "Women who have lost pregnancies before 24 weeks share their feelings about baby loss certificates."
image = 'Having_a_certificate_of_loss_proves_my_baby_existed__1145783925.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC', "us", "rape"]
+++

# ‘Having a certificate of loss proves my baby existed’

Emma Barnett wrote about the heartbreak of losing a baby this week.
She said receiving a certificate to mark the miscarriage has helped her family.
Here, other women share their thoughts and feelings about the government<bb>'s new scheme for bereaved parents to commemorate pregnancy losses.
The morning baby loss certificates were launched I found myself pouring my details into the website to apply.

It was really cathartic - I was surprised by how therapeutic it felt.
We have lost four pregnancies over the last three years and I now have four of these certificates.
None of the details seem to be on my medical record.
A month later we went into lockdown and I began to bleed.

I went to hospital alone, wearing homemade PPE and the worst was confirmed.
They said I could stay as I was bleeding heavily, but I was too scared.
I passed the tiny baby and kept it in a box, before burying it under a tree.
When I was miscarrying I was asked what I would want to do with the <bb>"remains.

I said nothing as it all felt so unreal.
I have huge regret and guilt about how my baby passed.
To deal with my emotions I kept using the phrase 'it wasn<bb>'t viable' Women in England who have lost a baby before 24 weeks of pregnancy can now apply for a certificate to commemorate their baby.
You must be aged 16 or over and your pregnancy ended on or after 1 September 2018.

Welsh and Northern Ireland governments are both considering introducing baby loss certificates.
Lizie has had 15 rounds of IVF and five pregnancies.
She is hugely affected on a daily basis by her losses.
She hopes certificates mean people feel they can talk about their losses.

Every positive pregnancy that ends in unwanted miscarriage will be recognised and registered - that women will no longer have to question if their baby counted.
I lost my babies in the late 1970s but I still grieve, and I still wonder what the babies I lost would have become.
I have nothing to commemorate them other than my memories.
A baby loss certificate would give me something to confirm the sadness I felt - and feel - is justified.

It acknowledges the grief and the pain, and then the courage and eventual joy.
It charts the beginning of a story for which there was eventually a happy ending.


