+++
title = "Warning pet owners overpaying for medicine"
date = 'Tue, 12 Mar 2024 10:52:32 GMT'
description = "The competition watchdog said that customers struggle to access information such as price lists."
image = 'Warning_pet_owners_overpaying_for_medicine__2560594025.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Warning pet owners overpaying for medicine

More than 80% of practice websites have no pricing information, watchdog says.
It means owners may be overpaying for medicines or prescriptions.
CMA has provisionally decided to launch a formal market investigation.
If a formal investigation upholds its findings, it would give the CMA the power to compel companies to give it full set of information.

The vet industry is worth £2bn after pet ownership rose to two-thirds of UK households during the coronavirus pandemic.
But watchdog cited concerns over a lack of information available for 16 million UK pet owners.
It analysed 1,400 websites for general vet practices belonging to big corporate groups and found 83% provided no pricing information, even for the most basic services.
The CMA received thousands of responses from pet owners, vets and veterinary nurses, as well as from charities and industry groups.

It found a similar picture across independent vet practices<bb>' websites.
The regulatory framework is outdated and may no longer be fit for purpose.
Shambu, a Shiba Inu, was diagnosed with patellar luxation which can lead to arthritis.
The treatment, including the operation, cost £3,786 in a specialist referral veterinary clinic.

Shambu broke a tooth, with the extraction costing a little under £1,900.
Dominic paid £400 for tests and treatment after Shambu got sick.
The two operations were covered by insurance - less the £250 excess for each incident.
But the dental work was only covered up to £1,000.

He said: "We don<bb>'t see the amount that it costs to run a business like this" Independent practices accounted for 89% of the UK veterinary industry in 2013.
But that had fallen to about 45% by 2021, the CMA said.
The CMA had, however, also warned about changes in ownership of vet practices in recent years.
The challenge is to find the right treatment for people and their animals, he said.

Pets at Home told watchdog that the majority that it runs are 50-50 joint ventures with individual owners who are vets, nurses or practice managers.
The CMA has now launched a four-week consultation on its proposal to start a formal market investigation, which will close on 11 April.
Keep your pet at a healthy weight, with up-to-date flea and worming treatments.
Vaccinations can help prevent diseases that cost more to treat in the long run.

Many vets offer monthly plans that cover vaccinations which can help spread costs.
Some charities, including  Blue Cross, offer support for people on benefits.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-68534697)
