+++
title = "Briton becomes first woman to finish one of world's toughest races"
date = 'Sat, 23 Mar 2024 11:53:50 GMT'
description = "Jasmin Paris from Midlothian made history by finishing the gruelling 100-mile Barkley Marathons."
image = 'Briton_becomes_first_woman_to_finish_one_of_world_s_toughest_races__4059952590.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Sports'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland", "us"]
+++

# Briton becomes first woman to finish one of world's toughest races

Jasmin Paris from Midlothian completed the Barkley Marathons in Tennessee with just one minute 39 seconds to spare of the 60-hour cut off.
The course, at Frozen Head State Park, changes every year but covers 100 miles involving 60,000ft of climb and descent.
Only 20 people have ever made it to the end of the race within the allotted 60 hours since it was extended to 100 miles in 1989.
The 40-year-old vet, who lives at Gladhouse Reservoir, Midlothian, had to navigate through extreme and often pathless terrain, continuing to run through the night.

David Miller, a professional photographer at the race, told BBC Scotland he had witnessed the <bb>#34;greatest ultramarathon achievement of all time.
He said there was a lot of anticipation at the finish line and three minutes before the 60 hour cut off we heard shouting and a roar and it was people cheering Jasmin on.
Barkley is a grueling 20-mile race that changes every year.
Only 35 participants are allowed to take part each year.

The race was the brainchild of Gary Cantrell and Karl Henn.
It was inspired by the escape of James Earl Ray in 1977.
Competitors must find between nine and 14 books along the course.
They must remove the page corresponding to their race number as proof of completion.

The first and third loops are run clockwise, while the second and fourth are run anticlockwise.
The race officially begins when the race director lights a cigarette.
Jasmin, who was born in Hadfield in Derbyshire, had previously completed what is called a <bb>#34;Fun Run.
She completed the Montane Spine Race in 83 hours, 12 minutes and 23 seconds.

Her sponsor, Inov8, said her achievement was one of the greatest stories in sport.


