+++
title = "What we know about attack on Moscow concert hall"
date = 'Mon, 25 Mar 2024 02:36:47 GMT'
description = "More than 130 people were killed when gunmen opened fire inside a packed arena before setting it alight."
image = 'What_we_know_about_attack_on_Moscow_concert_hall__1863145405.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "ukraine", "russia", "putin", "moscow concert"]
+++

# What we know about attack on Moscow concert hall

More than 130 people were killed as gunmen stormed the complex.
Islamic State group has said four of its members carried out the attack.
Crocus City Hall, on the outskirts of Moscow, was about to host a concert by the rock group Picnic when gunmen burst into the foyer.
The terrorists used a flammable liquid to set fire to the concert hall.

Flames later engulfed the facade, while glass on the top two floors of the seven-storey building blew out.
More than 6,000 Russians had flocked to the retail and concert complex for the event.
The oldest victim was in her 70s, with three children among the dead.
Many of those killed and wounded came from Krasnogorsk, Khimki and other nearby towns on Moscow<bb>'s north-western fringe.

At least 60 remain in a serious condition and authorities warn more could die.
Four suspects were dragged into a court in Moscow on Sunday and named as Dalerdzhon Mirzoyev, Saidakrami Murodali Rachabalizoda, Shamsidin Fariduni and Muhammadsobir Fayzov.
Russia<bb>'s state news agency Tass said all four were from Tajikistan.
Russian officials have complained the US intelligence lacked specific detail.

President Vladimir Putin said: <bb>"Recent provocative statements by a number of official Westerns structures about the possibility of terrorist attacks in Russia.
He added that Russia was prepared to deal with any threat to its security.
U.
S.

singled out Islamic State-Khorasanor IS-K, an offshoot of al-Qaeda.
Putin said the assailants were caught as they were trying to flee to Ukraine.
Ukraine swiftly dismissed the Russian claims as untenable and absurd.
The BBC has been able to match details of two of the alleged attackers who appear in an IS video and an IS-released still image to videos of the arrested suspects.

Your question will be published, displaying your name, age and location as you provide it.
Your contact details will never be published.
Please ensure you have read our terms and conditions and privacy policy.
If you are reading this page and can<bb>'t see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website.


