+++
title = "Murphy wins best actor as Oppenheimer sweeps Oscars"
date = 'Mon, 11 Mar 2024 03:29:42 GMT'
description = "Cillian Murphy is the first Irish-born winner of the best actor award for his role as J Robert Oppenheimer."
image = 'Murphy_wins_best_actor_as_Oppenheimer_sweeps_Oscars__3486137941.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC', "gaza", "oscars", "israel"]
+++

# Murphy wins best actor as Oppenheimer sweeps Oscars

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Cillian Murphy becomes first Irish-born winner of best actor award.
Oppenheimer wins best picture, best director and best supporting actor.
Poor Things takes four prizes, including best actress for Emma Stone.
The Zone of Interest scored two, while Downey Jr won best supporting.

The actor joked: <bb>"I needed this job more than it needed me.
He also thanked his terrible childhood, and the Academy, in that order.
The actor won an Oscar for best actor in a comedy or musical for his role in "The Godfather" Downey Jr, best known for his run as Marvel<bb>'s Iron Man, has enjoyed a hugely successful Hollywood comeback after serious drug addiction issues more than two decades ago.
The star also paid tribute to his wife Susan Downey, who he said had found him as a snarling rescue pet.

Host Jimmy Kimmel joked the cast and crew were <bb>"getting Oppen-hammered at the bar<bb>#38;.
Poor Things wins best production design, costume design, make-up and hairstyling, as well as best actress for Emma Stone.
The Yorgos Lanthimos film follows an infant whose brain has been implanted into the body of an adult woman.
However, it lost several other technical categories, denying it a record-breaking number of wins.

Best actress was the only major category that awards watchers had struggled to call.
Martin Scorsese<bb>'s drama about a string of Osage murders in the 1920s went home empty handed despite being nominated in 10 categories.
What Was I Made For?
by Billie Eilish won best original song.

The Zone of Interest won best sound and became the first British film ever to win best international feature.
The critically acclaimed Holocaust drama follows a German family who live next to the Auschwitz concentration camp.
In his acceptance speech, director Jonathan Glazer criticised Israel and the ongoing war in Gaza.
The film follows a woman accused of killing her husband, with the only nearby witness her visually impaired son.

Its writer Cord Jefferson said he understood Hollywood <bb>"is a risk-averse industry.
But he said studios should commission more smaller-scale movies.
The film<bb>'s director and co-writer Justine Triet joked the Oscar would help her through her mid-life crisis.
Japanese fantasy film The Boy and the Heron was named best animated feature film.

Director Wes Anderson won his first Academy Award in the live action short category.
For the fourth time, the ceremony was hosted by Jimmy Kimmel.
He paid tribute to the efforts made to get a fair deal for actors and writers.
Kimmel joked that actors could now stop worrying about being replaced by AI.

He also suggested the nominated movies <bb>"were too long this year.
Kimmel read out an online post from former US President Donald Trump, who had complained about Kimmel<bb>'s performance.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68530809)
