+++
title = "Holidaymakers caught out by 10-year-passport rule"
date = 'Wed, 27 Mar 2024 12:53:09 GMT'
description = "UK passports can have up to 10 years and nine months on them but EU countries won't accept them."
image = 'Holidaymakers_caught_out_by_10_year_passport_rule__1322860243.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "us", "uk", "eu"]
+++

# Holidaymakers caught out by 10-year-passport rule

UK travellers used to be able to carry up to nine months from an old passport over to a new one.
But post-Brexit, EU countries will not accept passports issued more than 10 years ago.
32 million people had applied for passports that if granted would be over 10 years old.
Since the UK left the EU, travellers heading to all countries within the zone must have a passport which was issued less than 10 years before their departure date.

It must also be valid for three months after their planned return date.
However, if a UK passport was issued before September 2018, it could in fact bevalid for up to 10 years and nine months.
People travelling from the UK to EU countries need passports that are valid for at least three months after the day you plan to leave.
Post-Brexit, EU countries do not accept passports issued more than 10 years ago.

To get a passport issued urgently in the UK, book an appointment at the nearest passport office.
Airlines UK told us there was no guarantee that potentially invalid passport details would be picked up in advance, and said airlines do provide reminders and links.
Simon Calder, travel correspondent at the Independent says based on his own research, a couple of hundred people a day are being turned away from their flights.
He has written to the airlines, urging them to do more to make people aware.

The EU says it is the responsibility of the person travelling to ensure they have a valid travel document.
If someone is turned back at the airport Mr Calder says they are not covered and will not get their money back.
If you spot a problem try and get an emergency appointment and see if you can get a passport turned around.
Fees for new passports and renewals are set to go up in April under government plans.

A standard online application for an adult is expected to rise from £82.0 to £88.50.A passport for under 16s is currently £53.30 and is set to increase to £57.50 in April.



