+++
title = "What is preventative chemotherapy?"
date = 'Fri, 22 Mar 2024 19:00:15 GMT'
description = "In a video message she said she started preventative chemotherapy last month."
image = 'What_is_preventative_chemotherapy__3732729150.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC', "cancer", "uk"]
+++

# What is preventative chemotherapy?

Catherine, Princess of Wales, says she is having treatment for cancer.
It was discovered following major abdominal surgery in January.
She started preventative chemotherapy in late February.
Kensington Palace has not said what type of cancer she has.

The princess has a right to medical privacy as we all do, a spokesperson said.
After the surgery in January, which Kensington Palace says was successful, doctors performed tests which revealed cancer had been present.
The Palace is not commenting on where she is now receiving care.
Prof Andrew Beggs, a consultant colorectal surgeon, said: <bb>#34;Preventive chemotherapy after surgery is given to reduce the risk of the cancer coming back in the future.

Cancer occurs when cells in a specific part of the body divide in an uncontrolled way.
Untreated, these cells can potentially spread to other tissues in the body, including organs.
In the UK, one in two people develop some kind of cancer during their lives.
Most cases of cancer are in people aged 50 and over.

The symptoms you are experiencing may not be cancer, but it is important to get checked.
Find cancer early can often make it easier to treat.
Get in touch by emailing Have Your Say@bbc.
co.

uk.
You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet:                 @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or video:                .
Read our terms and conditions and privacy policy.
CNN.

com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.
for next week.

Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
We will feature a selection of the best shots from across the globe.


