+++
title = "Heat pumps too expensive, government warned"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 00:14:59 GMT'
description = "The spending watchdog says the costs remain too high and public awareness of the technology remains low."
image = 'Heat_pumps_too_expensive_government_warned__2184169905.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC', "oil"]
+++

# Heat pumps too expensive, government warned

Despite its target, only 55,000 heat pumps were sold in the UK in 2022.
Sales must increase dramatically, said the UK<bb>#39;s spending watchdog.
To meet UK climate change targets, the government wants to install 600,000 low-carbon heat pumps annually by 2028.
Heating in UK homes produces 18% of the country<bb>#39;s greenhouse gas emissions.

Only 55,000 heat pumps were sold in the UK in 2022.
National Audit Office (NAO) said ministers were optimistic to think that target could be reached by 2028.
It urged the government to increase public awareness of the green technology.
The NAO has recommended the government makes a decision on whether hydrogen will be part of the UK<bb>#39;s energy home heating system before 2026.

Last year a number of trials were cancelled to gather more information on the feasibility of the technology.
The government has not ruled out hydrogen as an alternative to heat pumps.
The Boiler Upgrade Scheme offers grants for heat pumps.
The grant was increased last year and applications grew by nearly 40% as a result.

A Department for Energy and Net Zero spokesperson said the scheme was helping families with the cost of the heat pump.
The scheme is available to anyone who wants to upgrade their boiler.
On Thursday, the government announced there will no longer be a mandatory requirement for insulation before applying for the grant.
The government also announced that it is delaying by a year the implementation of fines for boiler manufacturers who do not hit heat pump sales targets.

The UK is falling behind Europe when it comes to decarbonising our homes, experts say.
Are heat pumps too expensive?
Please share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.
co.

uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist.
You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet:  grotesquely@BBC_HaveYourSay.
Upload pictures or video.


