+++
title = "Chris Kaba murder charge police officer named for first time"
date = 'Fri, 08 Mar 2024 11:36:34 GMT'
description = "Chris Kaba died after being shot in a police operation in south London in September 2022."
image = 'Chris_Kaba_murder_charge_police_officer_named_for_first_time__405437224.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Chris Kaba murder charge police officer named for first time

Martyn Blake has pleaded not guilty to murdering Chris Kaba.
Mr Kaba, 24, died from a single gunshot wound in a Met operation in September 2022.
Mr Blake, 40, had been known by the codename NX121 after threats were made against him.
Judge Mark Lucraft lifted the anonymity order after media organisations, including the BBC, challenged the legal application to protect his identity.

Mr Justice Lucraft said that significant information had emerged about a threat to his safety in the aftermath of the shooting.
He examined <bb>"raw underlying intelligence<bb>' about the threat, to enable him to make the decision about whether the officer should be allowed to remain anonymous.
Restrictions on publishing pictures of the officer will remain in place.
Inquest caseworker welcomes judge's decision to lift anonymity order.

Previously, police officers facing serious criminal charges have been named in court and the media has been able to report their names.
Metropolitan Police Federation secretary Rick Prior said the organisation was ‘hugely shocked, saddened and concerned’ Up to 300 armed officers had turned in their firearms permits allowing them to carry weapons.
Out of a total of about 2,500 armed officers in the Met, up to 300 had given up their permits.
The Metropolitan Police is one of the most dangerous police forces in the UK.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-london-68502539)
