+++
title = 'Israel back in Eurovision 2024 after lyric change'
date = 'Thu, 07 Mar 2024 19:21:16 GMT'
description = 'Israel has changed lyrics to its Eurovision song after it was thought to reference the 7 October attacks.'
image = 'Israel_back_in_Eurovision_2024_after_lyric_change__1469940558.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "gaza", "russia", "israel"]
+++

# Israel back in Eurovision 2024 after lyric change

Eden Golan will represent the country at the contest in Sweden this May.
Israel will be allowed to compete at the Eurovision Song Contest 2024 after changing the lyrics to its song, organisers have confirmed.
The country will take part in the contest for the first time in 2024.
Israel's public broadcaster agreed to amend the song, now titled Hurricane.

Original song, October Rain, was thought to reference the Hamas attacks of 7 October and had been barred for breaking rules on political neutrality.
Belgium's Culture Minister Benedicte Linard called for Israel to be banned from Eurovision as long as the war in Gaza continues.
Musicians in several countries have called for Israel to be suspended from the contest.
Iceland's Association of Composers and Lyricists said Israel's military action in Gaza made its participation incompatible with the event.

In Finland, a petition signed by more than 1,400 music industry professionals said it was among the first to demand the ban on Russia.
Israel launched an air and ground campaign in Gaza after Hamas attacks on 7 October.
More than 30,800 people have been killed in Gaza since then, the territory<bb>'s Hamas-run health ministry says.
Around 1,200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68505050)
