+++
title = 'Sons publish book García Márquez wanted destroyed'
date = 'Wed, 06 Mar 2024 13:43:47 GMT'
description = 'The Nobel Prize-winning authors son explains why the "betrayal" of his fathers wishes is justified.'
image = 'Sons_publish_book_Garc_a_M_rquez_wanted_destroyed__1012447721.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = 'BBC'
+++

# Sons publish book García Márquez wanted destroyed

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

The Colombian writer, who died in 2014, was best known for pioneering the magical realist style of writing.
He wrote books including Love in the Time of Cholera and One Hundred Years of Solitude, which has sold more than 50 million copies worldwide.
In his final days, he told his sons the book must be destroyed.
However they defied their father and, in what they have called an act of <bb>"betrayal<bb>"" have published the book.

After reading the text again recently, Gonzalo said he didn<bb>'t <bb>"find it as disastrous as Gabo had judged it.
He said it was a valuable addition to his work because it showed a new side to him and was unique.
The novel centres on a middle-aged woman who travels alone to an island every summer to visit her mother<bb>'s grave.
During each trip she takes a new lover despite being happily married.

It is the first time that García Márquez has centred on a female protagonist.
In a three-star review, The Telegraph's Sarah Perry said the cumulative effect of the book <bb>"is oddly moving.
She noted that the novel is stripped of the endless, inventive discursions into folk-tale, backstory and verbal brio that characterise the best of Marquez.
García Márquez received many offers over the years to adapt his book into a film but refused because he only wanted it to be done in Spanish.

Before author Franz Kafka died in 1924, he told friend Max Brod to burn all of his work.
Between 1925 and 1935 Brod published his collection of works including The Trial, The Castle and Amerika.
In 2009, 30 years after Nabokov<bb>'s death, his son released the unfinished work.
The Aeneid had been written in pencil on index cards.

Gonzalo García Barcha will be on BBC Radio 4 and BBC Sounds on 6 March.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68488756)
