+++
title = "Russia says it repelled multiple drone attacks"
date = 'Sun, 17 Mar 2024 10:36:43 GMT'
description = "Dozens of drones were intercepted, Russia says, but one attack caused an oil refinery fire in Krasnodar."
image = 'Russia_says_it_repelled_multiple_drone_attacks__66484604.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "oil", "ukraine", "russia"]
+++

# Russia says it repelled multiple drone attacks

Russia's defence ministry says its forces have destroyed dozens of drones.
The biggest attack happened in the southern Russian region of Krasnodar.
The attacks come as Russia holds a general election in which President Vladimir Putin is guaranteed to win.
In Ukraine, officials reported an overnight barrage of Russian drones and missiles on the port city of Odesa.

Five drones were downed in different areas while flying towards the capital.
Two Moscow airports have imposed flight restrictions for security reasons.
Another area of Russia - the Belgorod region, near northern Ukraine - has also come under attack.
A teenage girl died when a shell hit a residential building.

13 Iranian-made Shahed drones were shot down.
No injuries were reported, but the attack caused fires at two agricultural sites and destroyed buildings.
Russia claims that Ukraine is attempting to disrupt the presidential election that is certain to give President Putin another six years in power.
But it also launched a wave of drones against Ukrainian cities overnight.

The Krasnodar attack is the latest in a number of similar drone attacks, with 12 oil refineries targeted in recent times.
It said that Ukraine<bb>#39;s aim was to undermine the Russian economy and its oil exports.
President Volodymyr Zelensky referred to the success of Ukraine's long-range drones in recent weeks.


