+++
title = "First J-Pop, then K-Pop - could I-Pop be next?"
date = 'Sat, 23 Mar 2024 00:03:17 GMT'
description = "Ri, Zo, Sim, and Suchi are members of India's first mainstream girl group in over 20 years."
image = 'First_J_Pop_then_K_Pop_could_I_Pop_be_next__247748868.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "india", "us"]
+++

# First J-Pop, then K-Pop - could I-Pop be next?

Ri, Zo, Sim, and Suchi are said to be India;s first mainstream girl group in more than 20 years.  W.i.S.H.  is an acronym of World inka Stage Hai, or the world is their stage.  W.i.S.H. want to change that and get to the top by spreading a positive message of sisterhood and female empowerment.  She describes their debut single, Lazeez, as a song that <bb>#34;celebrates the modern woman and encourages self-love.  W.i.S.H.
were created by music producer Mikey McCleary under Sony Music Entertainment.  Ri, who was the first member cast, has been overwhelmed by the positive feedback from fans.  Although they are excited to be India<bb>#39;s first girl band in over two decades, Zo admits there is still a sense of pressure.W.i.S.H.
have also been studying famous Western girl groups like the Spice Girls and Little Mix.

They want to follow their lead by embracing each member individuality.  And sisterhood is something that is very important to them too - especially with Sim and Ri being siblings.  Ankur Desai and W.i.S.H. are living a dream.They have been working towards this for two years and it's their turn now, she says.She says: "This is just an exciting time for all of us.

