+++
title = 'Firths wet shirt from Pride and Prejudice on sale'
date = 'Tue, 05 Mar 2024 00:54:52 GMT'
description = 'The shirt, which Colin Firth wore as Mr Darcy, could fetch as much as £10,000 in a charity auction.'
image = 'Firth_s_wet_shirt_from_Pride_and_Prejudice_on_sale__1828280639.png'
keywrods =  []
tags = "BBC" 
categories = "Entertainment" 
+++

# Firth's wet shirt from Pride and Prejudice on sale

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

The shirt was worn by Colin Firth in the 1995 adaptation of Pride and Prejudice.
It is one of more than 60 costumes from film and TV being auctioned in London.
The lot contains treasures from the archives of Cosprop, a costume house founded by Oscar-winning designer John Bright.
All of the proceeds will go to charity.

Costumes from Poldark, Peaky Blinders and Downton Abbey are up for grabs.
Another was already in the Cosprop archive, and a third remains in the archive.
Other items include the dress worn by Meryl Streep in The French Lieutenant, and Heath Ledger's costume from Casanova.
Cosprop donated the costumes in support of The Bright Foundation, an arts education charity, established and funded by John Bright.

The entire collection spans more than 400 years of fashion history, with costumes ranging in style from fantasy Renaissance to mid-20th Century silhouettes.
An online auction will also feature film and TV related experiences and celebrity memorabilia.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68415018)
