+++
title = "'I'm proud swimmers dared to speak up over abuse'"
date = 'Sat, 09 Mar 2024 21:18:46 GMT'
description = "The first swimmer to speak publicly about abuse in the sport praises those intent on changing the culture."
image = 'I_m_proud_swimmers_dared_to_speak_up_over_abuse__3783521178.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Sports'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# 'I'm proud swimmers dared to speak up over abuse'

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Phoebe Lenderyou battled bulimia for five years after extreme criticism and humiliating weigh-ins by her coaches.
A review found extreme competitiveness led to an ongoing and systemic toxicity at all levels of the sport.
Phoebe was contacted by more than 100 swimmers following the article who shared their own stories.
More than 1,000 swimmers, parents, coaches and volunteers took part in the research, with another 3,500 completing a survey.

Swim England banned the weighing of children after Phoebe and others spoke out about suffering eating disorders and disordered eating.
She said she was 'so proud of how brave everyone is who also shared their stories and talked about how they feel' Swim England chairperson Richard Hookway said the organisation was committed to change.
The review found bullying was rife, by coaches and other swimmers.
People were fearful of speaking out about bad practice for fear of being ostracised from the sport.

Phoebe said she thought it was amazing to see change had already taken place.
Swimmers who trained with elite club Ellesmere Titans in Shropshire make a string of bullying and abuse allegations - and Swim England shuts the club down.
Phoebe Lenderyou is the first to go public with her story of suffering bulimia for five years while swimming competitively.
March 2024 - Chief executive Jane Nickerson retires and Andy Salmon, former CEO of British Triathlon takes over.

March 2024 - The listening review into the culture within aquatics is published.
If you have been affected by any of the issues raised in this article, help and support is available via the BBC Action Line.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-68510541)
