+++
title = "Britney and Harry memoirs shortlisted for award"
date = 'Fri, 08 Mar 2024 09:36:13 GMT'
description = "Autobiographies by Britney Spears and the Duke of Sussex are shortlisted for Book of the Year."
image = 'Britney_and_Harry_memoirs_shortlisted_for_award__871026435.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Britney and Harry memoirs shortlisted for award

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

The Woman in Me by Britney Spears is nominated for Book of the Year.
The book tells the story of Britney's relationship with Justin Timberlake.
It is one of a number of books to be shortlisted for the award.
Other books nominated include Star Trek: The Next Generation by David Walliams and The Queen’s Daughter by Emma Watson.

Yomi Adegoke<bb>'s The List, about cancel culture and influencers, has also been shortlisted in two categories - Audiobook: Fiction and Debut Fiction.
Newcomer Yomi Adebayo is also shortlisted for her debut novel.
A number of the authors nominated have BookTok hits, a hashtag with over 200 billion views on TikTok.
Colleen Hoover, for dark romance It Starts with Us, a sequel to last year<bb>'s winner, Verity.

R.
F Kuang, for satire Yellowface, Gabrielle Zevin, for coming-of-age novel Tomorrow.
Rebecca Yarros for romantasy bestseller Fourth Wing.
Yarros is the only author to have two titles shortlisted, with the sequel Iron Flame also nominated in the fiction category.

Award-winning author and illustrator Alice Oseman has also risen to fame on TikTok.
Her chart-topping series Heartstopper includes the UK<bb>'s fastest-selling graphic novel to date.
Sathnam Sanghera nominated for Stolen History: The Truth About the British Empire And How It Shaped Us.
Richard Osman nominated for The Last Devil to Die, the fourth novel in his million-copy bestselling The Thursday Murder Club series.

GT Karber shortlisted for his puzzle book and UK Christmas number-one, Murdle.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68503331)
