+++
title = "I am no longer best man to be Irish PM - Varadkar"
date = 'Wed, 20 Mar 2024 19:11:47 GMT'
description = "Fine Gael leader Leo Varadkar became the Republic of Ireland's youngest prime minister in 2017."
image = 'I_am_no_longer_best_man_to_be_Irish_PM_Varadkar__1412727077.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Politics'
tags = ['BBC', "finance"]
+++

# I am no longer best man to be Irish PM - Varadkar

Leo Varadkar was Ireland<bb>#39;s youngest PM in 2017 when he became Fine Gael leader.
He currently leads the coalition government in Dublin, along with Fianna Fáil and the Green Party.
He described leading his country as <bb>#34;the most fulfilling time of my life.
During his time as taoiseach, Mr Varadkar championed referendums to change the Irish constitution legalising same-sex marriage and abortion.

He listed work to improve the affordability of childcare among his achievements as well as increasing government spending on arts and culture, international development, and public infrastructure.
Mr Varadkar said his reasons for stepping down were <bb>#34;both personal and political.
He said he felt the current government could be re-elected.
But he felt he was not the best person for the job anymore.

The Irish government parties have said they do not expect a general election.
In 2020, Mr Martin was appointed taoiseach with Mr Varadkar serving as his tánaiste (deputy PM), before the two swapped roles in 2022.
Mr Martin said he had been <bb>#34;surprised<bb>#34;" by the decision.
The Taoiseach said he was committed to fulfilling the full term of the coalition.

Sinn Féin President Mary Lou McDonald called for a general election.
She said the country needed a new generation of leaders to take the country forward.
The election will be held on May 25th.
The UK Prime Minister, Rishi Sunak, wished Leo Varadkar well following his resignation.

Ms McDonald claimed that when Fine Gael took power in 2011 Ireland had one of the highest levels of home ownership in Europe.
She said the next taoiseach should be chosen by a conference of Fine Gael politicians.
Sinn Féin vice president described Fine Gael<bb>#39;s time in power as <bb>#34;13 years of failure.
Northern Ireland First Minister Michelle.

Neill also said it was time for an election.
Deputy First Minister Emma Little-Pengelly said Leo Varadkar and unionism didn’t often see eye to eye.
Ireland's President Michael D Higgins was told of the taoiseach<bb>#39;s intention to resign shortly before Wednesday's press conference.
The pair spoke immediately afterwards and thanked each other for their service.

There will be a Fine Gael National Executive emergency meeting on Wednesday evening to start the process of selecting a new leader.
Simon Harris, 37, is the early favourite with many bookmakers.
He gained a high profile as health minister when the Republic of Ireland voted to amend its constitution to legalise abortion in 2018.
Helen McEntee became a TD at the age of 26, succeeding her father after he took his own life.

Heather Humphreys represents the Cavan-Monaghan constituency.
She covered the justice ministry for two periods while McEntee took maternity leave.
She is also president of the Eurogroup - which brings together the finance ministers of the eurozone for informal meetings.
If she became taoiseach she would be the first Protestant to hold the post.


