+++
title = "I'm not ashamed of who I am any more, says Lioness"
date = 'Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:50:45 GMT'
description = "Lioness striker Bethany England speaks to the BBC to mark 10 years since gay marriage was legalised."
image = 'I_m_not_ashamed_of_who_I_am_any_more_says_Lioness__131825793.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland", "us", "uk"]
+++

# I'm not ashamed of who I am any more, says Lioness

Lioness Bethany England is looking forward to walking down the aisle with her fiancée, Steph Williams.
Bethany says 2014, when the new law came in, was about the time she realised she was gay.
It<bb>'s not too long ago that a wedding between two women in the UK would have been impossible.
Tottenham striker is one of many gay female players in the game.

The 29-year-old features in a BBC iPlayer documentary - Gay Marriage and Me.
The show looks at how many more role models have spoken up since the law came in.
It also looks at where marriage equality is at in 2024.
The Church of England, along with many others, still defines marriage as between one man and one woman.

Its officials aren<bb>'t allowed to legally marry gay couples unless that definition changes.
Those institutions could decide to <bb>"opt in<bb>"" to same-sex weddings under the law.
Fewer than 3% of all religious buildings registered to marry people in England and Wales will officiate ceremonies for same-sex couples.
Reverend Jide Macaulay, an openly gay priest from Manchester, would like things to change.

The Church of England would also need that decision to go through parliament.
The Church of England has recently approved new prayers of blessing for same-sex couples.
The Bishop of Leicester, Martyn Snow, says the Church is trying to create an inclusive space where all voices are heard and respected.
The Church has evolved from issues around slavery, racism, the subjugation of women, he says.

In Northern Ireland it is a similar situation.
We<bb>'re committed to engaging in these important discussions because these are matters which profoundly affect people<bb>"s lives, he says.
He adds: "It is a matter which profoundly affects people's lives" Of nearly 2,800 religious officiants, 65 are registered for same-sex weddings.
Church of Scotland and Scottish Episcopal Church are the only bigger churches in the UK that have opted in to the legislation.

Bethany says she and her partner still don<bb>'t hold hands in the street.
Bethany's increased profile has brought more online hate.
She says it<bb>'s mostly misogynist and misogynist type comments.
But some are homophobic too, particularly when posts include her partner.

Many can have a religious element, she says.
But she says she has no shame in who she is and who she's with.


