+++
title = "McDonald's resolves IT issue for customers in UK"
date = 'Fri, 15 Mar 2024 12:44:54 GMT'
description = "But it is unclear whether the outage is still preventing customers in other countries from placing orders."
image = 'McDonald_s_resolves_IT_issue_for_customers_in_UK__3401572686.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Automobile'
tags = ['BBC', "business", "japan"]
+++

# McDonald's resolves IT issue for customers in UK

Customers in Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Germany and Austria were also unable to order food owing to a series of IT issues.
The issue has now been resolved in the UK and Ireland, the company said in a statement.
It is unclear whether the problem has been resolved elsewhere.
Downdetector, a system used to monitor IT problems in businesses, noted a spike in issues with the McDonald<bb>#39;s UK app from around 05:00 GMT on Friday.

But during that time they <bb>#34;couldn't serve anyone.
Some social media users posted their discontent.
A spokesperson for Australian McDonald<bb>#39;s confirmed the outage was impacting its restaurants nationwide.
The fast food chain has about 40,000 restaurants worldwide, with around 1,450 restaurants across the UK and Ireland and more than 14,000 stores in the United States.

The BBC operates nearly 3,000 across Japan and roughly 1,000 in Australia.
Are you affected by the issues raised in this story?
Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.
co.

uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-68573106)
