+++
title = "GB News shows hosted by MPs broke Ofcom rules"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 11:36:47 GMT'
description = "Five episodes hosted by serving Tory MPs found to have broken broadcasting rules by media regulator."
image = 'GB_News_shows_hosted_by_MPs_broke_Ofcom_rules__865671751.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Technology'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# GB News shows hosted by MPs broke Ofcom rules

Ofcom said shows hosted by Sir Jacob Rees-Mogg, Esther McVey and Philip Davies broke rules stating politicians should not usually front news coverage.
The regulator said repeated contraventions of the relevant part of its code could lead to a sanction, which could include a fine or - in the most serious cases - revoking a broadcasting licence.
Sir Jacob hosts State of the Nation every Monday to Thursday evening.
McVey and Davies, who are married, previously presented their own show on Fridays and Saturdays.

They can, however, front current affairs shows, such as The Andrew Marr Show on BBC1.
The episodes in question were broadcast in May and June 2023.
They included a mix of news and current affairs, Ofcom said.
The regulator concluded: <bb>#34;News was, therefore, not presented with due impartiality' GB News: We are deeply concerned by the decisions Ofcom has made today.

GB News accused Ofcom of changing the test it used to decide what has broken the rules.
It added: <bb>#34;This is a chilling development for all broadcasters, for freedom of speech, and for everyone in the United Kingdom.
We will raise this directly with the regulator in the strongest possible terms' Ofcom said it had not changed its rules.


