+++
title = "What are my rights if my flight is cancelled or delayed?"
date = 'Thu, 28 Mar 2024 12:17:38 GMT'
description = "Millions are heading abroad over the bank holiday weekend, but what if their journeys are disrupted?"
image = 'What_are_my_rights_if_my_flight_is_cancelled_or_delayed__2431991316.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "us", "uk", "eu"]
+++

# What are my rights if my flight is cancelled or delayed?

Two million Brits are due to head abroad over the bank holiday weekend.
UK airports and airlines are preparing for a busy Easter holiday period.
Flight numbers are expected to return to pre-pandemic levels.
If your flight is covered by UK law, your airline must let you choose between getting a refund or being booked on to an alternative flight.

If you are stuck abroad or at the airport because of a flight cancellation, airlines must also provide you with other assistance until you are able to fly to your destination.
This includes a reasonable amount of food and drink (often in the form of vouchers) Free accommodation, if you have to stay overnight to fly the next day.
transport to and from the accommodation.
If you are delayed by more than five hours and no longer want to travel, you can get a full refund.

If you booked a package holiday with a company that is an ABTA member and your flight is cancelled, you are entitled to a suitable alternative flight.
The amount is based on how far you are flying.
If your flight is cancelled with less than two weeks<bb>' notice, you may be able to claim compensation based on the timings of the alternative flight you are offered.
The amount you are entitled to also depends on how far you were travelling.

Airlines are only responsible for covering direct costs, such as hotel rooms, meals and alternative flights.
You should agree with your employer how to deal with the absence.
This could include using more annual leave or time banked in lieu.
Employers have no legal obligation to pay employees who are absent.

Have you been personally affected by the disruption to flights?
Get in touch by emailing  haveyoursay@bbc.
co.
uk.

You can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.
co.
uk.
Please include your name, age and location with any submission.

You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet:                 @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or video:    https://www.
facebook.
com/bbchaveYourSay/videos?
v=1<bb>hl=en<bb>tweet=%20BBC%20Have%20Your%20Say%20logo.


