+++
title = "Al Pacino explains awkward Oscars announcement"
date = 'Tue, 12 Mar 2024 09:23:35 GMT'
description = "The night ended in a confusing manner, after Pacino failed to read out all the best picture nominees."
image = 'Al_Pacino_explains_awkward_Oscars_announcement__2809124728.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC', "oscars"]
+++

# Al Pacino explains awkward Oscars announcement

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

The veteran actor handed out the final trophy of the night, at Sunday<bb>'s star-studded event in Los Angeles.
But there was confusion when he abruptly announced the winner as Oppenheimer without first listing the nominees, as is customary.
The 83 year old said it was a choice by the producers not to have the nominees said again.
Oppenheimer swept the ceremony, winning best picture, best actor for Cillian Murphy, best director for Christopher Nolan, and best supporting actor for Robert Downey Jr.

An estimated 19.
5 million people tuned in to watch Sunday night<bb>'s 96th Academy Awards.
This year<bb>'s Oscar nominations included smash hits like Barbie and Oppenheimer.
The Academy also moved the show an hour earlier this year, which may have helped to boost ratings.

However, the ratings are still disappointing for a ceremony that regularly pulled in more than 40 million viewers a decade ago.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68542562)
