+++
title = "World's largest trees are 'thriving in UK'"
date = 'Wed, 13 Mar 2024 01:33:45 GMT'
description = "A survey of giant redwoods growing in the UK reveals the trees are doing well - and growing fast."
image = 'World_s_largest_trees_are_thriving_in_UK__1067140856.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland"]
+++

# World's largest trees are 'thriving in UK'

An estimated 500,000 trees are in the UK compared to 80,000 in California.
In California they can reach 90m-high, but in UK the tallest is 54.
87m.
But that<bb>#39;s because the introduced trees are still very young.

Giant redwoods were first brought to the UK by the Victorians.
They were the ultimate botanical status symbol.
Today, some form sweeping avenues while others stand in ones or twos.
But they<bb>#39;re easy to spot: their dense, cone-shaped crowns stand proud.

The trees are growing about as fast as the giant redwoods in their native home in the mountains of Sierra Nevada.
The UK climate seems to suit them, says Dr Wilkes.
The trees are at Wakehurst, Benmore Botanic Garden in Argyllshire, Scotland and Havering Country Park in Essex.
The scientists also looked at how much carbon dioxide the trees were absorbing.

Trees soak up and store the greenhouse gas and planting more trees can play a role in helping to tackle climate change.
Because of their sheer size, giant redwoods can lock up large amounts of carbon dioxide in their wood - although not as much as their US counterparts.
Giant redwoods are under threat from climate change in California.
Scientists say they could be planted in a mixed forest plantation in the UK.

Prof Mat Disney, from University College London, says he thinks it<bb>#39;s more than possible.
But he points out that conditions are also changing in Britain with climate change.
Giant redwoods are being planted as saplings all over the country.
Once they reach about 60m, they will be the tallest trees in Britain.

However, there<bb>#39;s little chance of them taking over our native forests.
They need very specific conditions to take seed.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-68518623)
