+++
title = "Verstappen takes Australia pole with Hamilton 11th"
date = 'Sat, 23 Mar 2024 08:32:50 GMT'
description = "Red Bull's Max Verstappen fights off a challenge from Ferrari driver Carlos Sainz to take pole position for the Australian Grand Prix."
image = 'Verstappen_takes_Australia_pole_with_Hamilton_11th__382480915.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Sports'
tags = ['BBC', "red bull", "us"]
+++

# Verstappen takes Australia pole with Hamilton 11th

Red Bull's Max Verstappen fights off a challenge from Ferrari driver Carlos Sainz to take pole position for the Australian Grand Prix.
Red Bull<bb>#39;s Max VerStappen fought off a challenges from Ferrari's Carlos Sianz to claim pole position.
Sainz was quickest in the first two parts of qualifying but the world champion bounced back in the top 10 shootout.
Lando Norris will start third ahead of Ferrari<bb>#39;s Charles Leclerc after a grid penalty for Red Bull's Sergio Perez.

Mercedes' George Russell was seventh while Lewis Hamilton only 11th.
Red Bull typically have an even greater advantage in the race than in qualifying.
Ferrari's long run in second practice looked strong and Verstappen said he was expecting a challenge.
It was a momentous performance from Sainz, in remarkable form considering he was just two weeks out from abdominal surgery.

I am not going to lie, I am not in my most comfortable state when I am driving out there but I can get it done," he said.
I was a bit rusty yesterday but I got up to speed and feeling good with the car," he added.
Perez took third in qualifying, 0.
359secs slower than team-mate Verstappen.

But he was later given a three-place grid drop for impeding the Haas of Nico Hulkenberg in the first part of qualifying.
Leclerc had looked competitive on Friday but he felt the car had gone away from him on Saturday.


