+++
title = "Drivers delayed as M25 closures cause delays"
date = 'Sat, 16 Mar 2024 12:45:00 GMT'
description = "There are two-mile queues on the motorway and congestion along the diversion route."
image = 'Drivers_delayed_as_M25_closures_cause_delays__2180175800.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Drivers delayed as M25 closures cause delays

A five-mile stretch of the M25 between junctions 10 and 11 was closed at 21:00 GMT Friday and will remain shut until 06:00 on Monday.
Congestion is increasing on the detour route, with drivers told not to try to be clever and seek out alternatives.
It is the first time there has been a scheduled daytime closure of all lanes on the M25 since it opened in 1986.
The closure is to enable the demolition of a bridge and the installation of a new gantry as part of a junction 10 improvement scheme.

National Highways warned vehicles would face delays of up to five hours without mitigation measures.
Byfleet is on the detour route and residents headed to a bridge over the motorway to photograph the empty lanes.
Councillor Amanda Boote described it as a <bb>#34;moment in history.
She added: ‘The traffic is starting to build up now but it was lovely overnight’ Cobham Veterinary Centre is also on the diversion and has been affected by roadworks for more than a year.

Owner of caterers Billy Tong said he expected to see 50% of the firm<bb>#39;s weekend turnover to go <bb>#34;down the drain.
Emergency services are also warning of a difficult weekend.
South East Coast Ambulance Service said on X, formerly Twitter, that it was likely to be a challenging weekend for their teams.
St Peter<bb>#39;s Hospital in Chertsey, Surrey, warned people to <bb>#34;only visit if necessary.

People affected may include people going to Gatwick and Heathrow Airports and the Channel ports, as well as concert-goers, sports fans and holidaymakers.
The closure will be the first of five between now and September as part of a £317m upgrade.
Get in touch by emailing Have Your Say@bbc.
co.

uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
Please include your name, age and location with any submission.


