+++
title = "FA defends new England kit over flag design"
date = 'Fri, 22 Mar 2024 16:21:56 GMT'
description = "The FA says it is not the first time different coloured St George's Cross-inspired designs have been used."
image = 'FA_defends_new_England_kit_over_flag_design__3200079840.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Sports'
tags = ['BBC', "us", "uk"]
+++

# FA defends new England kit over flag design

The FA has defended the St George<bb>#39;s Cross design on its new England kit.
The body said it understood what the flag <bb>#34;means to our fans.
Nike said its design was to celebrate the 1966 World Cup team.
Both the prime minister and Labour leader criticised the design.

Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said he preferred the original and the national flag was a source of pride and identity.
Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer told The Sun the <bb>#34;flag is used by everybody, it is a unifier, it doesn<bb>#39;t need to be changed.
The new design takes creative licence with the cross by adding navy, light blue and purple to the traditional red.
The trim on the cuffs takes its cues from the training gear worn by England<bb>#39;s 1966 heroes, with a gradient of blues and reds topped with purple.

Listeners from across the UK called Radio 5 Live to share their opinions on the row.
Bill in Cwmbran said he found the whole thing <bb>#34;utterly hilarious.
Katie in Clitheroe said she was surprised the debate was not focusing on the cost of the kit.
The new kit was debuted on Friday by England<bb>#39;s younger squad.

England's senior team will wear the kit for the first time on Saturday, when the team take on Brazil in a friendly at Wembley Stadium.
Midfielder Declan Rice, as well as Lioness striker Alessia Russo both rated the new kit as 10 out of 10.
Last summer, the sportwear brand was forced to U-turn on its decision not to sell Mary Earps replica goalkeeper shirts, after a public outcry.
In 2010, the home shirts featured a small, multi-coloured St George<bb>#39;s Cross pattern dotted on the shoulders.


