+++
title = "Police force put in special measures by watchdog"
date = 'Mon, 11 Mar 2024 12:09:56 GMT'
description = "Nottinghamshire Police is ordered to urgently produce an improvement plan by inspectors."
image = 'Police_force_put_in_special_measures_by_watchdog__3635957142.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Police force put in special measures by watchdog

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Nottinghamshire Police told to produce improvement plan by watchdog.
Move follows an inspection by His Majesty<bb>'s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire and Rescue Services (HMICFRS) Force will now be subject to an <bb>"enhanced level of monitoring.
Chief Constable Kate Meynell said she recognised the serious nature of findings.
Nottinghamshire Police ordered to review all crimes which appear to have inadequate supervision.

Force must identify suspects and assess the level of risk they pose to the public.
It must also review crimes in which victims have not received a regular update.
HMICFRS has also ordered the force to develop a workforce plan to ensure it has effective processes in place.
The incident took place in the early hours of Monday morning.

The incident is not thought to have been a result of a road accident.
The cause of the incident is still under investigation.
For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-nottinghamshire-68534241)
