+++
title = "Vinyl records and air fryers added to inflation measure"
date = 'Mon, 11 Mar 2024 10:01:30 GMT'
description = "Vinyl music sales – led by Taylor Swift's success - return to the basket of goods used to track prices."
image = 'Vinyl_records_and_air_fryers_added_to_inflation_measure__4274198074.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Vinyl records and air fryers added to inflation measure

Vinyl records have returned to the basket of goods used by the Office for National Statistics.
Air fryers have also been added to the virtual basket in its annual review.
But hand sanitiser, a must-have of the Covid years, has been taken out.
Her album 1989 (Taylor<bb>'s Version) was the best-selling vinyl LP of last year.

UK sales of vinyl LPs hit their highest level since 1990, according to the BPI.
For the first time since 1992, records are back in the ONS<bb>#38;s inflation basket.
The basket of goods also offers an insight into our fashions and spending habits.
The latest show prices rising at 4% a year, down from a recent peak of 11% in 2022.

Among the newcomers are air fryers, signalling their popularity among households trying to reduce their energy use and costs.
Demand for hand hygiene gel has fallen and so is given less space on shop shelves.
Women<bb>'s socks were considered under-represented, so have been added.
Pull-out beds are becoming more popular, as is rotisserie-cooked whole chicken.

More than four-fifths of recorded music is consumed via streaming.
vinyl has made a huge comeback, with fans seeing it as more collectible and having better sound quality.
Buy things close to their best before date which will be cheaper and use your freezer.
Read more tips here.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-68515100)
