+++
title = "Doctors question science behind blood sugar diet trend"
date = 'Sat, 16 Mar 2024 05:45:34 GMT'
description = "Experts say there is no strong evidence the monitors, proven to be effective in managing diabetes, can also help people without the condition."
image = 'Doctors_question_science_behind_blood_sugar_diet_trend__2558686487.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Doctors question science behind blood sugar diet trend

Gadgets are part of a personalised diet trend promoted on social media.
But NHS national diabetes advisor Prof Partha Kar said there is no strong evidence the gadgets help people without the condition.
ZOE said research is at an early stage but is <bb>#34;cutting edge<bb>#34%;.
Participants log their food intake and wear a continuous glucose monitor (CGM) for two weeks.

They also have their responses to fat, and their gut bacteria tested.
ZOE says all of these tests have helped it identify that even two healthy people can have wildly different responses to the same food.
High blood sugar is a symptom, not directly a cause, of diabetes, says Dr Nicola Guess.
Evidence base is nothing for understanding what swings in blood sugar mean in people without diabetes, she says.

Some small studies suggest that even before it reaches prediabetic or diabetic levels, having higher blood sugar may be linked to some worse outcomes.
Gut microbiome expert James Kinross says direct-to-consumer testing is 'problematic' Most data is still in diabetic patients, though, says Dr Sarah Berry.
She acknowledges that 'we don<bb>#39;t have all of the evidence' for the link.
Dr Ran Crooke, a GP who founded a company providing health services to start-ups, praised the company for trying to gather the evidence.

He said not having all the evidence on blood sugar shouldn<bb>#39;t be <bb>#34;stifling innovation.
Dr Guess is concerned she is seeing patients who use ZOE<bb>#39;s products cutting out foods she believes are good for their health.
That in itself can lead to health problems, and is not recommended by the company.
She adds people who avoid carbohydrates will get a temporarily <bb>#34;exaggerated glucose response<bb>#34.

ZOE does attempt to screen out people with a history of eating disorders.
Customers have access to trained nutrition coaches, who can support them with food anxiety and refer them on if they feel there<bb>#39;s a problem.
The company has published research based on the data it has collected from participants.
ZOE has carried out a study to understand changes caused by the programme.

But critics are concerned it won<bb>#39;t be able to unpick the effects.
Dr Berry argues ZOE is a very holistic product that doesn<bb>#34;t involve just continuous glucose monitoring.
A lot of ZOE<bb>#39;s advice, including around eating more whole foods and fewer processed foods, is sensible, she thinks.
But she believes this message is not compelling enough to sell a £300 product.

Are you affected by the issues raised in this story?
Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.
co.
uk.

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
We will feature a selection of the best shots from across the globe.


