+++
title = "Bus services: 'They're good if they turn up'"
date = 'Wed, 13 Mar 2024 09:47:19 GMT'
description = "Bus services vary widely on punctuality and value for money, a major passenger survey suggests."
image = 'Bus_services_They_re_good_if_they_turn_up__3967063096.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "business"]
+++

# Bus services: 'They're good if they turn up'

Passenger watchdog Transport Focus asked people to rate 35,000 bus journeys across 34 local authorities.
Overall, 80% were satisfied with their trips, but some areas scored much lower with punctuality and waiting times problems cited by many passengers.
Charity Bus Users UK said cuts to services left many without bus access.
Passengers least satisfied with their buses were in West Yorkshire, where service was rated at 73%.

Other low scoring areas include Tees Valley, Durham and the West Midlands.
The results provide a benchmark study of passengers<bb>#39; satisfaction, with marks given for punctuality, journey times and the bus driver.
Tracey Brabin is the Mayor of West Yorkshire and said the situation was ‘hopeless’ There has been significant investment in buses in recent years, to try improve services after years of cuts.
Just before the pandemic in 2020, former PM Boris Johnson announced bus services across the country would be transformed with simpler fares.

West Yorkshire spends £17m a year to improve journeys across the area.
A billion pounds of funding was allocated.
Department for Transport: Government has invested more than £3.
5bn into the sector since the pandemic, including over £1bn to make buses more frequent, more reliable and easier to use.

Many services across Britain have been cut due to falling passengers numbers and revenues since the pandemic.
Many areas and people become disconnected from the bus network.
Do you feel let down by your bus service?
Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.

co.
uk.
You can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.
co.

uk.
Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet:                 @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or video:    https://www.
facebook.

com/bbchaveYourSay/videos?
v=1<bb>hl=en<bb>tweet=%20BBC%20Have%20Your%20Say%20logo.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-68543962)
