+++
title = 'Emma Caldwell killer Iain Packer to appeal against conviction '
date = 'Wed, 06 Mar 2024 17:47:32 GMT'
description = 'Packer was convicted of the murder and of 32 other crimes last month.'
image = 'Emma_Caldwell_killer_Iain_Packer_to_appeal_against_conviction__2737181590.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = 'BBC'
+++

# Emma Caldwell killer Iain Packer to appeal against conviction 

Iain Packer was given a life sentence and ordered to serve a minimum of 36 years in prison.
He was found guilty last week of 33 charges against a total of 22 women, including Emma<bb>'s murder and 11 rapes.
The Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service confirmed to BBC Scotland that Packer has indicated a <bb>"intimation of intention to appeal.
Officers initially arrested four Turkish men in connection with the murder.

They were released a year later when the case against them collapsed.
Emma's family believe that a culture of misogyny and corruption meant that women and girls who came forward against Packer at the time were ignored.
They say this allowed Packer to continue raping other women.
Packer will not be released pending his appeal, which will take place at a later date.

First Minister Humza Yousaf has previously indicated that he would be open to a public inquiry being held.
The Scottish government due to make a statement in the Holyrood chamber on Thursday.
You can listen to the podcast series Who Killed Emma?
on BBC Sounds.

You can also read the full transcript of the interview with Emma on BBC iPlayer.
For more information on Who Killed Emma, visit the BBC Sounds website.
For the rest of the series, visit BBC iReport.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cv2yr92ekg7o)
