+++
title = "Leclerc tops Australian GP second practice"
date = 'Fri, 22 Mar 2024 08:31:47 GMT'
description = "Ferrari's Charles Leclerc leads Red Bull's Max Verstappen in Friday practice at the Australian Grand Prix."
image = 'Leclerc_tops_Australian_GP_second_practice__4282390301.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Sports'
tags = ['BBC', "red bull", "us"]
+++

# Leclerc tops Australian GP second practice

Ferrari's Charles Leclerc was 0.
381 seconds faster than Red Bull's Max Verstappen.
Carlos Sainz was third, from Lance Stroll and Fernando Alonso of Aston Martin and George Russell of Mercedes.
Lewis Hamilton in the second Mercedes was 18th fastest.

Verstappen ran later than his rivals because of the enforced delay to his programme.
He should have had the better of the track conditions when he set his fastest lap.
But he was not able to match Leclerc's pace, set earlier in the session.
Team principal Toto Wolff said it had been not a good day for Red Bull.

None of the drivers crashed in the second session of the Australian Grand Prix.
Williams driver Alex Albon was forced off the track after crashing into the wall at Turn Eight.
Albon will race in team-mate Logan Sargeant's car as a spare chassis is not available.
Russell felt he would have been third fastest had he put together his final lap of the session.

Both drivers had a number of <bb>#39;moments through the day, Russell catching the car when he lost the rear in Turn Nine in the first session.
And Hamilton ran wide in Turn 10 in the second.
Sainz was nearly 0.
5secs off his team-mate.

McLaren's Lando Norris was first in the opening session.
Leclerc said: <bb>#34;It feels good for now.
I came out of 12 and damaged my front wing and went off the track in the last two corners' We had a positive day.
It<bb>#39;s a good start but we need to keep working very hard.

We may have our best shot since the beginning of the season.
I think they are still ahead but we may have their best shot.
We need to wait and see where their potential is.


