+++
title = "Why does International Women's Day matter?"
date = 'Fri, 08 Mar 2024 01:24:49 GMT'
description = "Thousands of events take place around the world to mark International Women's Day on 8 March."
image = 'Why_does_International_Women_s_Day_matter__27622308.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "gaza", "ukraine", "russia"]
+++

# Why does International Women's Day matter?

International Women<bb>'s Day (IWD) grew out of the labour movement.
The seeds were planted in 1908, when 15,000 women marched through New York City demanding shorter working hours, better pay and the right to vote.
The idea to make it an international event came from Clara Zetkin, a communist activist.
The 8 March date was chosen after Russian women demanded bread and peace during a war-time strike in 1917.

The first theme adopted by the UN (in 1996) was <bb>"Celebrating the Past, Planning for the Future.
In China, many women are given a half-day off work, as advised by the State Council.
In the US, March is Women<bb>'s History Month.
A presidential proclamation is issued every year honours the achievements of American women.

Flower sales in Russia typically double around International Women’s Day.
In the U.
S.
President Joe Biden said the month would <bb>"celebrate the legacy of sung and unsung trailblazers.

The UN theme for 2024 is <bb>"Invest in women: Accelerate progress.
It aims to highlight the importance of gender-equality measures.
These colours were used by the Women<bb>'s Social and Political Union (WSPU) The WSPU was set up in the UK in 1903 to fight for women's votes.
Women in the Middle East, Afghanistan, Iran and Ukraine have been fighting for their rights amid war and violence.

UN experts say they have received credible allegations of human rights violations against women and girls in Gaza.
In Afghanistan, girls above primary-school age remain banned from classrooms by the Taliban.
International Men<bb>'s Day has taken place on 19 November since the 1990s.
It focuses on the positive value men bring to the world, their families and communities.

The event isn<bb>#38;t recognised by the UN, but is marked in more than 80 countries worldwide.
Comedian Richard Herring raised tens of thousands of pounds for domestic violence charity Refuge every International Women<bb>'s Day.
BBC 100 Women names 100 inspiring and influential women around the world every year.
Join the conversation using #BBC100Women on Twitter and Facebook.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-64723201)
