+++
title = 'Man killed in A5 crash was Caolan Devlin'
date = 'Wed, 06 Mar 2024 17:21:53 GMT'
description = 'Mr Devlin, who was 30, was pronounced dead at the scene of the crash between Omagh and Ballygawley.'
image = 'Man_killed_in_A5_crash_was_Caolan_Devlin__3238117125.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = 'BBC'
+++

# Man killed in A5 crash was Caolan Devlin

The 30-year-old was driving a BMW and was pronounced dead at the scene.
The collision happened on the Curr Road, between Omagh and Ballygawley.
Mr Devlin was the only occupant of the car which collided with a lorry.
The Northern Ireland Ambulance Service received a 999 call at 19:18 GMT.

Police said the lorry driver was not hurt.
Sinn Féin MP Órfhlaith Begley described Mr Devlin<bb>'s death as an <bb>"absolute tragedy.
First Minister Michelle O<bb>'Neill said she was deeply shocked and saddened.
Social Democratic and Labour Party assembly member Daniel McCrossan said his sympathies were with Mr Devlin's family and friends.

Niall McKenna, chair of the A5 Enough is Enough Campaign, said there is total devastation in the Tyrone community.
Police have appealed to anyone with any information or who may have dashcam or mobile phone footage to contact them.
The Devlin family in Coalisland last night, whose son didn<bb>'t come home to them and that was very traumatic and horrendous for them.
More delays will inevitably mean more deaths unfortunately.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-northern-ireland-68484128)
