+++
title = "'I was brought to the UK to work as a slave'"
date = 'Thu, 14 Mar 2024 01:40:18 GMT'
description = "Rose describes the exploitation and sexual violence she faced after escaping a life of hell."
image = 'I_was_brought_to_the_UK_to_work_as_a_slave__95427583.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# 'I was brought to the UK to work as a slave'

Rose left Nigeria full of optimism for all that Britain has to offer.
She says her dreams of a new life in Britain became a nightmare of punishing work, physical assault and rape.
She is nervous to tell her story, but wants people to understand the reality of modern slavery in the UK.
Rose, not her real name, says she was taken to a restaurant owned by the couple.

She worked six days a week, and on her only day off did more chores at home.
She travelled to the UK on a six-month tourist visa.
She says: "I felt so exhausted.
so empty" Rose says the gruelling work pattern continued for a year, with no wages and no sign of her starting her studies.

She could not call her family because of the home<bb>#39;s CCTV, so called when she took their little girl to the park.
Even then, she did not want to tell the truth.
The wife also returned to Nigeria, which meant Rose had sole care of her daughter.
Rose says the situation left her trapped and exposed to a new form of exploitation.

She says the couple would shout at her, calling her <bb>#34;stupid<bb>#34;" and "useless" Rose was held captive for more than a year by a couple at a restaurant.
She was repeatedly raped by the couple, but was too scared to go to the police.
Her escape came when she confided in a friend at the restaurant.
The Salvation Army has been supporting victims of modern slavery since 2011.

Last year across England and Wales, 3,533 people were rescued and supported.
In the East of England the charity helped 187 people - an increase of 64 people on the previous year.
Offering economically disadvantaged people a dream job or educational opportunity is a common method used to entrap victims.
Forced labour is common in the construction, agriculture, hospitality, domestic and sex industries.

But there is growing concern about the care sector, says Betteridge.
Signs to look out for and report include people who are fearful or withdrawn, those who have marks on their bodies or appear to be controlled.
The charity supports victims through the criminal justice process and makes sure they have access to English classes and education.
No charges have yet been brought against those who have worked for the charity but the investigation is ongoing.

The charity says it will continue to work with the victims to ensure they get the help they need.
East Midlands Police have launched an investigation into the incident.
They are appealing to anyone who may have been involved in the incident to come forward.
If you have any information, please contact East Midlands Police on 0800 169 1830.

For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-cambridgeshire-68341674)
