+++
title = "Revisiting Oasis' first tour venues, 30 years on"
date = 'Sat, 23 Mar 2024 02:47:30 GMT'
description = "Some of the venues on the band's 1994 tour say they now struggle to afford to host new artists."
image = 'Revisiting_Oasis_first_tour_venues_30_years_on__939726319.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC', "oil", "us", "uk"]
+++

# Revisiting Oasis' first tour venues, 30 years on

Exactly 30 years ago, a little-known band called Oasis set out on their first headline tour.
Mark Davyd was asked to book a gig by a rising Scottish band called Whiteout at his venue in Kent in March 1994.
He wasn<bb>#39;t keen when he found out that an unfamiliar Mancunian group would also be on the bill.
He wanted to put on a local support act instead - but the agent stressed it was a joint headlined tour.

Oasis played the Tunbridge Wells Forum - a 250-capacity converted toilet block - on the third date of their first proper tour.
It wasn<bb>#39;t sold out, but it wasn't empty by a long chalk, Davyd says.
The Gallagher brothers exceeded his expectations.
Oasis were the next big thing - and went from playing Tunbridge Wells to headlining Glastonbury the following year, and making history at Knebworth the year after that.

For those early venues, it has become increasingly difficult to make ends meet three decades later.
You could not afford to put on a similar show now featuring two new bands.
You will definitely lose money.
The Music Venue Trust was set up in 1994 to promote live music in the UK.

Since then, the number of live music venues in the country has increased.
The Trust is set to announce it will close down some of its venues by the end of the year.
It will also be looking for new venues to stage events.
Running a venue has got tougher since the Covid pandemic, Bates says.

Fewer bands are touring, especially since Brexit, he says.
Young people go out less, guitar bands have gone out of fashion, says Bates.
Many up-and-coming artists make their names on TikTok rather than the live circuit.
The Joiners started promoting gigs in bigger venues in Southampton.

Next Saturday, on the 30th anniversary of that show, tribute band Oas-is will perform at the same venue.
Fans can relive the original gig regularly - O as-is play at the Fleece seven times a year.
When Sharp bought the long-running venue in 2010, he initially didn<bb>#39;t want to book any tribute bands.
But he soon realised they sell more tickets than new groups, and fans buy more beer.

So now, tribute bands and club nights take place on Fridays and Saturdays, subsidising the tours and new artists.
Cost of living crisis has crippled grassroots circuit, says MVT.
Calls for big arenas and promoters to put a portion of earnings back into small clubs and pubs.
Hull's New Adelphi boasts that it has hosted early gigs by 11 future Glastonbury headliners - including Oasis.

More than 700 artists performed in 250 shows at the 180-capacity venue last year, he says.
The industry is currently <bb>#34;unpredictable<bb># 34;, he adds.
But he hasn<bb>#39;t noticed a drop-off in bands wanting to play.
One show coming up features four new bands put on by a young promoter, who is also learning the trade.

A lot of them are doing it DIY without the aid of management, labels, agents.
There<bb>#39;ll be 90 people in here for a gig next week hosted by young people at £3 on the door.


