+++
title = "Fresh defeat in the Lords over Rwanda bill"
date = 'Wed, 20 Mar 2024 17:20:47 GMT'
description = "Peers vote for changes to the government's legislation, which will delay it further from becoming law."
image = 'Fresh_defeat_in_the_Lords_over_Rwanda_bill__3309833641.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "africa"]
+++

# Fresh defeat in the Lords over Rwanda bill

The bill must now return to the Commons to be passed.
It aims to stop people making the dangerous journey across the Channel.
The Supreme Court ruled the government's plan could lead to human rights breaches.
The bill declares the east African country is safe, after deportation flights were stalled.

The bill must now return to the Commons in a process known as <bb>#34;ping pong.
It is batted between the two Parliamentary chambers until they can agree the final wording.
Another vote will probably have to wait until MPs return from their Easter break on 15 April, unless the government clears the Commons schedule to allow votes next week.
Lord Hope has put forward an amendment that Rwanda only be deemed a safe country once a treaty bringing in new safeguards has been fully implemented.

Other changes being considered by the Lords include a proposal from Labour peer Lord Browne that individuals who have supported the UK armed forces overseas should be exempt from deportation to Rwanda.
Labour has said it would scrap the Rwanda scheme if it wins power.
Party spokesman Lord Coaker said the party had no intention of blocking the bill.
But he added: <bb>#34;If the scheme is up and running you have to accept the government has already made.


