+++
title = "Drug debt murder gang jailed for total of 59 years"
date = 'Wed, 20 Mar 2024 13:39:14 GMT'
description = "Thomas Guthrie, Barry Harvey and Thomas Owen carried out a violent campaign which left two men dead."
image = 'Drug_debt_murder_gang_jailed_for_total_of_59_years__1308824331.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Drug debt murder gang jailed for total of 59 years

Three members of a crime gang jailed for a total of 59 years for a campaign of violence which left two men dead.
Darren Owen, 35, and Thomas Guthrie, 27, were found guilty of the attempted murder of drug dealer Scott Bennett.
They were also convicted of the murder of gym owner Gary More, 32, in September.
Guthrie must serve at least 29 years before he is eligible to apply for parole.

He was already serving a life sentence for his role as a getaway driver in the murder.
He had a minimum of eight years added to his earlier sentence of 21 years and seven months.
Ex-Partick Thistle youth player Harvey was jailed in 2007 for nine years as a teenager for a knife attack.
The trial heard the hitman had built up a reputation as an enforcer.

Harvey's sentence is due to expire in 2041 and he has been released on bail.
The body of Rafal Lyko, 36, was discovered in a burned-out Mercedes in Blantyre, South Lanarkshire, on 11 February 2019.
Co-accused Thomas Wilson, 26, was found not guilty of Mr Lyko<bb>#39;s murder.
The trial also heard how lawyer Joe Shields, 68, was slashed outside his office close to Glasgow Sheriff Court on 19 July 2018.

Mr Shields defended a Scots crime gang headed by David Sell who was jailed for 16 years in 2018 for the abduction and torture of drug dealer Robert Allan.


