+++
title = "Freeman 'furious' at last-minute delay to hospital"
date = 'Tue, 12 Mar 2024 12:01:14 GMT'
description = "Ex-health secretary Jeane Freeman tells the Scottish Hospitals Inquiry of her anger at delays to a new children's hospital."
image = 'Freeman_furious_at_last_minute_delay_to_hospital__369314277.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Sports'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Freeman 'furious' at last-minute delay to hospital

NHS Lothian had suggested a phased opening while the problem was fixed.
But Ms Freeman ruled this was unsafe.
She was furious to learn about ventilation problems with the Sick Kids in Edinburgh just days before it was due to open in 2019.
The former SNP cabinet secretary used her witness statement to the inquiry to criticise NHS Lothians.

Ms Freeman said news of the problems was a <bb>"big bolt from the blue.
Ex-health secretary said NHS Lothian suggested moving some of departments into the new building while the ventilation issues were addressed.
But Ms Freeman rejected a phased move as she had lost trust and confidence in the assurances given about the readiness of the facility.
Former NHS Lothian chairman Brian Houston has previously accused Ms Freeman of lying when she said she was overruling the move to the new hospital.

The new Sick Kids hospital cost about £150m to build, but its full price tag over 25 years will be £432m under the NPD deal.
The inquiry, before Lord Brodie, continues.
For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or see www.
samaritans.

org.
In the U.
S.
call the National Suicide Prevention Line on 1-800-273-8255.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-edinburgh-east-fife-68543419)
