+++
title = "How do I know if my smart meter is broken?"
date = 'Tue, 26 Mar 2024 15:17:44 GMT'
description = "Almost four million smart meters in Great Britain were not working at the end of 2023."
image = 'How_do_I_know_if_my_smart_meter_is_broken__1863220420.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC', "business", "uk"]
+++

# How do I know if my smart meter is broken?

Faulty meters can mean customers rely on estimated bills.
Almost four million smart meters in Great Britain were not working at the end of 2023, according to government data.
Smart meters measure how much gas and electricity you use.
Some customers are paying too much and struggling to get money back.

Smart meters usually come with an in-home display, which can help you track how much energy you<bb>'re using.
They can record half-hourly price and consumption data and automatically send readings to your energy supplier at least once a month.
Almost 35 million smart meters in homes and businesses across Great Britain at the end of 2023.
Department for Energy Security and Net Zero say four million not working properly.

This means they were not operating in <bb>"smart mode and sending readings to suppliers.
Energy UK, the trade association for the energy industry, says suppliers must replace faulty meters.
However, Martin Lewis, from MoneySavingExpert, said meters with other problems should also be included in the government statistics.
You should contact your supplier - it should help you fix your meter.

If they fail to do so within eight weeks, Ofgem has a guide on how to complain.
You can also request an independent test of your meter, says Smart Energy GB.
Although it is free, you may have to pay your supplier for organising it if it is found to be working correctly.
Conventional energy meters need to be replaced every 10 to 20 years.

Most suppliers no longer install non-smart versions.
It is not compulsory to have a smart meter unless your current meter is faulty or at the end of its working life, says Ofgem.
You can therefore choose not to accept an offer to have one fitted.


