+++
title = "US reports death of senior Hamas military leader"
date = 'Tue, 19 Mar 2024 06:43:34 GMT'
description = "Details are also released of President Biden's high-stakes call to Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu."
image = 'US_reports_death_of_senior_Hamas_military_leader__3297063566.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "gaza", "israel"]
+++

# US reports death of senior Hamas military leader

Mr Issa was considered one of Israel<bb>#39;s most-wanted men.
He was killed in a strike on a tunnel complex under the Nuseirat refugee camp.
The Palestinian group, which controls Gaza, has not officially commented on reports of his death.
He would be Hamas' most senior leader to die since the war began.

Hamas political leader Saleh al-Arouri died in an explosion in Beirut.
He was linked to the 7 October attack led by the group which killed approximately 1,200 people.
He had been jailed by Israel for five years during the first Palestinian intifada, or uprising.
U.

S.
national security adviser said other Hamas leaders were believed to be in hiding.
He pledged that the US would aid Israel in its continued hunt for top Hamas leaders.
But he also emphasised that US President Joe Biden had expressed his growing alarm over the rising number of civilian deaths in Gaza.

President Biden pushed Mr Netanyahu for a clear, strategic end game in Gaza.
The death toll has drawn international condemnation and alienated many of Israel<bb>#39;s allies.
Mr Biden was able to get the Israeli leader to agree to sending a senior interagency team to Washington in the coming days.
Senior Democrats in the US are growing more vocally critical of Mr Netanyahu.

Chuck Schumer - the top Democrat in the Senate - called for new elections in Israel.
Mr Netanyahu's Likud party pushed back, saying Israel was not a <bb>#34;banana republic.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken will travel to the Middle East this week.
He will hold meetings in Saudi Arabia and Egypt to discuss international efforts to reach a ceasefire.

Israeli negotiators are due to begin talks in Qatar on Tuesday in a fresh attempt to secure a ceasefire deal.


