+++
title = "PM under pressure over 'new £5m' from donor accused of racism"
date = 'Fri, 15 Mar 2024 11:43:17 GMT'
description = "The Tory party has reportedly not declared all its funding from controversial Tory party donor Frank Hester."
image = 'PM_under_pressure_over_new_5m_from_donor_accused_of_racism__3170968913.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "oil"]
+++

# PM under pressure over 'new £5m' from donor accused of racism

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Rishi Sunak under pressure over ties to Frank Hester, the party donor embroiled in a race row.
Tory Party has not denied reports it received as-yet-undeclared funds from Mr Hester.
Party donations made after December are not due to be published until June.
The tech boss apologised for making the comments about the former-Labour MP.

He said his remarks had nothing to do with her gender nor colour of skin.
The prime minster called the comments <bb>#34;racist<bb>#34;" and <bb># 34;wrong.
But argues Mr Hester's apology should be accepted.
Mr Hester is one of the biggest donors to the Conservative Party.

He is the founder and chief executive of health tech company TPP.
Mr Hester has been asked to resign by the British Medical Association.
The AMA has called for him to step down from his role at the company.
Rishi Sunak needs to pay back every penny, cut ties with Frank Hester and apologise unequivocally to Diane Abbott.

Lib Dem MP Wendy Chamberlain said: ‘People like Mr Hester need to be nowhere near our politics.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-68567484)
