+++
title = "Abbott hits out at racism in politics after donor row"
date = 'Thu, 14 Mar 2024 10:41:28 GMT'
description = "Diane Abbott speaks as a row continues over Tory donor Frank Hester's alleged racist comments about her."
image = 'Abbott_hits_out_at_racism_in_politics_after_donor_row__1684066798.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Politics'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Abbott hits out at racism in politics after donor row

Frank Hester is reported to have said the MP made him want to hate all black women.
Ms Abbott said she had been <bb>#34;upset<bb>#34;" by the comments.
But she also criticised Labour, insisting racism in politics is not just a matter for any one party.
Ms Abbott unsuccessfully tried more than 40 times to get the Speaker's attention.

A spokesperson for the Speaker, Sir Lindsay Hoyle, said there was not enough time to call all MPs.
Ms Abbott sits as an independent MP after being suspended by Labour in April last year.
Tory leader Ed Miliband says the party is not prepared to back down over the issue of immigration.
He says it is time to put an end to the practice of sending immigrants to the UK from other countries.

But he warns that it is not the end of the story if the issue is not dealt with.
Racism in politics is not just a matter for any one political party, she added.
34;Sadly, racism in politics isn't just a problem for one party, it's for all of us, <bb>#33; she said.
The U.

S.
Senate is holding a hearing on the issue of racism in the political system.
She is understood to have asked him to readmit her to the Labour party.
But he said he would only do so if there was anything he could do to help her.

The BBC has not been able to independently verify his comments.
The row over her inclusion in the Labour Party has been raging for months.
Mr Sunak did not initially describe the alleged comments as racist after they were first reported - but did do so on Tuesday evening.
Mr Hester has been asked whether the reported comments are accurate.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-68562408)
