+++
title = "How to get a job: Six expert tips for finding work"
date = 'Mon, 14 Aug 2023 16:03:58 GMT'
description = "There are 10m people out of work in the UK, so if you're searching for a job you're not alone. Here are some tips on how to get started."
image = 'How_to_get_a_job_Six_expert_tips_for_finding_work__257431884.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC', "business"]
+++

# How to get a job: Six expert tips for finding work

Unemployment is close to its lowest rate since the 1970s.
But there are about 8.
65 million people out of work.
It may feel daunting to try and find a job at first so we spoke to some career experts to give you some tips.

There have been a lot of shifts in the workplace in recent years.
Hybrid and flexible working means your job search can stretch a bit further, quite literally.
If you want to work part-time or say four days a week, don<bb>#39;t let full-time positions put you off applying, says Ms Smyth.
She says daily searches on these words are important, so it identifies what you<bb>#34;re interested in.

Engagement as well is key and that means clicking on jobs with the job titles or a company.
Many businesses want to avoid the cost of advertising a job formally and may rely on word of mouth.
It<bb>#39;s always worth sending an email or having a chat with a manager at a business that you like the look of.
You can advertise yourself rather visibly via social media sites like Linkedin which showcase your skills and experience.

It can be a little disheartening if the jobs you want require specific very specific qualifications.
It may be worth having a look at if there are any ways of picking up the experience or training that you need to land a job.
Volunteering is also a great way of filling gaps on your CV.
Celebrating the little wins along the way can boost your confidence and keep you motivated.

Mehar Sindhu Batra says it<bb>#39;s quite useful to set personal targets, like a tracker of the number of jobs to apply for in a week or a certain number of cold emails.


