+++
title = "Andrew Tate appears in court over UK arrest warrant"
date = 'Tue, 12 Mar 2024 12:52:41 GMT'
description = "Andrew Tate and his brother categorically reject the sexual offence charges they are accused of."
image = 'Andrew_Tate_appears_in_court_over_UK_arrest_warrant__2147969270.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Andrew Tate appears in court over UK arrest warrant

The internet personalities were detained by Romanian police on Monday night.
Arrest warrants were issued over alleged sexual offences in Britain.
Court of Appeal postponed a decision on the warrant.
Andrew Tate, 37, and Tristan, 35, <bb>"categorically reject all charges.

They are fully committed to challenging these accusations with unwavering determination and resolve.
They categorically reject all charges and express profound disappointment that such serious allegations are being resurrected without substantial new evidence,<bb>"" the statement said.
Their representatives claim the allegations cover 2012 to 2015.
The Tate brothers, who are dual UK-US nationals, were ordered by a Romanian court not to leave Romania in December.

The brothers are being investigated by Romanian authorities over separate allegations of rape, human trafficking and forming a criminal gang.
They are accused of exploiting women via an adult content business, which prosecutors allege operated as a criminal group.
He is a self-described misogynist and was previously banned from social media platforms for expressing misogynistic views.
He is currently on a break from prison after being sentenced to two years in prison for assaulting a woman in a hotel room.

He was sentenced to a two-year prison sentence in a prison facility after he was found guilty of assaulting another woman.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-68542187)
