+++
title = "A ball of barnacles wins wildlife photo award"
date = 'Fri, 15 Mar 2024 00:28:40 GMT'
description = "The winning photographs from this year's British Wildlife Photography Awards."
image = 'A_ball_of_barnacles_wins_wildlife_photo_award__2001358950.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# A ball of barnacles wins wildlife photo award

The picture was chosen from more than 14,000 entries by both amateur and professional photographers.
The photograph, which also won the Coast and Marine category, was taken by Ryan Stalker.
The football was washed up in Dorset after making a huge ocean journey across the Atlantic.
Photographers competed in different categories, here are the other winners.

This award is supported by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) to encourage young people to get involved with nature.
Mark Williams won the Animal Portraits category with this picture of a common starling.
This image was made using 160 images, each focused on a different area of the scene, then stacked together to create one highly detailed image.
The Habitat category was won by Daniel Valverde Fernandez, who took this picture in Sherwood Pines Forest Park, Nottinghamshire and titled it The Tightrope Walker.

Ross Hoddinott photographed these common blue butterflies on a farm in Devon to win the Hidden Britain category.
Graham Niven’s picture of beech trees in East Lothian won the Wild Woods category.
The fox is perfectly framed between the branches and its silhouette is subtly highlighted by the sun<bb>#39;s rays falling on it.
Robin Dodd captured a picture of a raven flying over the Isle of Arran to win the Black and White category.

The trees form a canopy that has channel-like gaps which, when photographed from below, appear to create an intricate network of channels between the respective canopies.
Dodd: "Besides the wondrous vision you are afforded, it<bb>#39;s also just a great excuse to lie down in the forest" The Animal Behaviour category was won by Ian Mason with this picture titled Three Frogs in Amplexus.
This image is in black and white and consists of two shots, focus-stacked.
A photograph of a fox in Bristol won Simon Withyman the Urban Wildlife category.

Felix Walker-Nix won the 12-14 years section with this photo of roe deer.
34;She would often walk along this wall, and I was able to capture this photo through the gaps in the metal fencing, while making the most of some striking lens flare.
The 11 and under winner is Jamie Smart with this picture of a pheasant, taken in Wales.
It was an incredible experience to see a <bb>#39;humbug<bb>#39;"-patterned fawn before it loses its spots, and it was a magical experience to get so close.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/in-pictures-68543633)
