+++
title = "Don't equate Muslims with extremists, attack victims say"
date = 'Sun, 10 Mar 2024 05:41:06 GMT'
description = "Fifty survivors and relatives of those killed in London, Manchester and Brussels are among the signatories."
image = 'Don_t_equate_Muslims_with_extremists_attack_victims_say__428599403.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "israel"]
+++

# Don't equate Muslims with extremists, attack victims say

Survivors and relatives of those killed during attacks in London, Manchester and Brussels are among the signatories.
They warn it is irresponsible for politicians to equate extremists with the vast majority of British Muslims who deplore such violence.
It comes as the government prepares to set out a new definition of extremism.
The 57 signatories to the letter include Magen Inon, whose parents were killed by Hamas during the 7 October attacks on Israel.

Rebecca Rigby, whose husband Lee was killed by two men with extremist views outside Woolwich barracks in 2013, and Figen and Stuart Murray whose son Martyn was killed.
Claudia Vince, who survived the 2019 London Bridge attack, and Charlotte Dixon-Sutcliffe, whose partner David was killed in the Brussels Metro bombing in 2016, have also added their names.
We also know where anti-Muslim hate can lead,<bb>" the letter continues.
Communities Secretary Michael Gove plans to set out a new official definition of extremism.

It will be used by the government to cut ties or funding to any groups deemed to have crossed the line.
It notes the upcoming fifth anniversary of shootings at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, in 2019.
He warns that some pro-Palestinian events have been organised by extremist organisations.
He asks: do you really want to be lending credence to this organisation?

If you do, fair enough, he says.
But it doesn't mean people who have gone on them are extremist, quite the opposite.
Rishi Sunak has warned of a rise in anti-Muslim hatred and antisemitism.
He said there is no excuse for ignorance, adding: 'There is no excuses for ignorance' The issue of extremism has risen on the political agenda in the aftermath of claims by Lee Anderson, a former Tory deputy chairman.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-68526577)
