+++
title = "Kate hospital says any privacy breach would be investigated"
date = 'Wed, 20 Mar 2024 16:32:12 GMT'
description = "It follows reports, first published by the Daily Mirror, that a staff member at the London Clinic attempted to access her private medical reports."
image = 'Kate_hospital_says_any_privacy_breach_would_be_investigated__279871695.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Technology'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Kate hospital says any privacy breach would be investigated

The hospital where Catherine, Princess of Wales, underwent abdominal surgery has said any breach of patient information would be investigated.
The hospital has said <bb>#34;any breach<bb>#34;" of patient info would be investigation.
The princess had abdominal surgery at St Mary's Hospital in London.
London Clinic says it has 'no place' for those intentionally breaching trust.

It follows reports a staff member tried to access her medical information.
UK privacy and data protection watchdog confirms it has received a breach report.
Downing Street says there are strict rules on patient data that must be followed.
Catherine had abdominal surgery in January, spending almost two weeks at the London Clinic.

Palace previously said she would take time away from public-facing engagements until after Easter.
But the princess<bb>#39;s absence has led to weeks of online speculation and conspiracy theories about her health.
Catherine and William were filmed leaving a farm shop on Monday.
The princess apologised for any confusion, saying she experimented with editing photographs.

Social media users suggested the woman in the video was in fact a body double.
But there was no evidence to suggest this was the case.


