+++
title = 'What is the new vaping tax and when will it start?'
date = 'Wed, 06 Mar 2024 15:25:45 GMT'
description = 'The government will introduce a new vaping tax on top of measures to stop children vaping.'
image = 'What_is_the_new_vaping_tax_and_when_will_it_start__820722619.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "india"]
+++

# What is the new vaping tax and when will it start?

Vaping is nowhere near as harmful as smoking cigarettes.
But health experts agree that anyone who doesn<bb>'t smoke should not start.
The government has said it will introduce a new tax on vaping products.
It has already announced plans to ban disposable vapes, to help cut the number of children vaping.

Vaping products duty will start in October 2026.
The duty will be in place until the end of the current fiscal year in October 2015.
Vaping products will be taxed at the same rate as tobacco products.
Vape products will not be taxed on the basis of age.

Tobacco duty will go up by £2 per 100 cigarettes at the same time.
The amount of duty will depend on how much nicotine is in the vaping liquid.
It is already illegal to sell vapes to under-18s, but the government will increase fines for retailers which do so.
Vaping is now twice as common as smoking among children and young people.

Cheap, brightly-coloured disposable vapes driving up the increase from 14% three years ago.
US has banned some vape flavours like mint and fruit in particular e-cigarettes.
South Korea, India and Brazil have brought in very strict vape rules.
88 countries have no minimum age for buying vapes, and 74 have no laws in place for e-cigarettes.

Half of all life-long smokers will die early, losing on average about 10 years of life.
That<bb>'s why people who smoke are urged to stop, with vapes the most effective quit tool.
Vaping is not harmless, so it<bb>'s only recommended for adult smokers.
They are offered free vape kits on the NHS to help them quit as part of its <bb>"swap to stop programme.

Fewer people in the UK are smoking than ever before - around 13% now.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-66784967)
