+++
title = "Five tips when asking for a pay rise"
date = 'Mon, 12 Feb 2024 15:39:38 GMT'
description = "Recruiters, a manager and a workplace psychologist give their advice on how to negotiate for more money."
image = 'Five_tips_when_asking_for_a_pay_rise__255658049.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Five tips when asking for a pay rise

Last year saw waves of strikes, with tens of thousands of workers walking out.
Many of these strikes have taken place in the public sector.
Even if you do have a conversation with your manager there<bb>'s no guarantee that it will result in a pay rise.
But there are ways to give yourself the best chance of success.

Jill Cotton, a career trends experts at jobs site Glassdoor, says scheduling a talk in advance will allow you and your boss time to prepare.
We spoke to recruiters, a manager and a workplace psychologist to get five tips on how to best negotiate for more money.
Rowsonara Begum helps her brother run Saffron Indian takeaway in Salisbury.
She says if workers pick a time when the business is doing well, they will have the best chance of successfully negotiating more money.

The takeaway has five members of staff and occasionally takes on additional workers during busy periods.
List all the pros of what you<bb>'ve done, says Shan Saba, a director at Glasgow-based recruitment firm Brightwork.
This evidence also helps your manager rationalise why you should be paid more, according to Stephanie Davies, a workplace psychologist.
If you have aspirations of moving up through your organisation, have a plan for the coming year.

Most experts agree it<bb>'s best to have an exact figure in mind before embarking on a conversation about pay.
Women and people from minority backgrounds can often find it particularly hard to ask for more more.
Do your research, advises James Reed, chair of recruitment firm Reed.
Pay is also not the be-all and end-all, says Mr Reed.

You might be able to get more holiday or more flexibility around working hours.
You could also negotiate extra training and development.
And if you don't feel you're getting what you want, there are other opportunities out there.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-64288791)
