+++
title = "NI sees 20% rise in 18-49 cancer diagnoses"
date = 'Mon, 25 Mar 2024 07:45:09 GMT'
description = "Research looking at figures between 1993 and 2019 show more people under 50 are being diagnosed."
image = 'NI_sees_20_rise_in_18_49_cancer_diagnoses__3781562266.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC', "cancer", "us", "uk"]
+++

# NI sees 20% rise in 18-49 cancer diagnoses

Figures show that, by 2019, 1,076 people aged 18-49 were diagnosed with some form of cancer.
Prof Helen Coleman, who was involved in the research, said it was worrying.
The research looked at early onset cancers, which means cancers diagnosed in adults under the age of 50.
Cancers commonly seen in older people are now being diagnosed in younger adults.

The rise has also been seen in other western countries such as across the UK, America and Australia.
Prof Coleman said researchers need to better understand what is causing cancers in young adults.
She said risk factors such as smoking, alcohol and obesity should not be ignored.
From 1993-2019 there was a 27% increase in the incidence rate of cancers in women.

The most common cancers in men aged between 40 to 49 were colorectal, melanoma, lung and head cancers.
Northern Ireland<bb>'s cancer strategy has yet to be fully implemented.
Prof Coleman said all those who took part in the review believes it highlights relevant areas for discussion about early onset cancers.
He said lowering the age of screening could be a key part of the review.

The review will be published in the journal Cancer Research UK next month.
For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.
Prevention and early detection are key to reducing disease burden and improving cancer outcomes, says Dame Deborah James, who died from bowel cancer.
She said: <bb>"We should be aiming to create treatment pathways for early onset cancers where at each stage patients and their families are given autonomy and support relevant to their individual circumstances.


