+++
title = "Top director makes Gaza statement in Oscars speech on night of protests"
date = 'Mon, 11 Mar 2024 02:55:31 GMT'
description = "Jonathan Glazer said he refuted his Jewishness and the Holocaust being hijacked by an occupation."
image = 'Top_director_makes_Gaza_statement_in_Oscars_speech_on_night_of_protests__2330186065.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Top director makes Gaza statement in Oscars speech on night of protests

Protesters block traffic outside the Dolby Theatre in London.
Around 1,000 people took part in the demonstration outside the venue.
Celebrities, including Billie Eilish, also wore pins calling for a ceasefire.
The Zone of Interest won the best international film award at the Oscars.

The German-language film focuses on the family of Auschwitz commandant Rudolf Höss.
An estimated 1.
1 million people were murdered there - one million of whom were Jews.
Glazer: "All our choices were made to reflect and confront us in the present" Palestinians in the West Bank and eastern Jerusalem have lived under Israeli occupation since 1967.

The director previously told the BBC that his film <bb>"looks into dark corners of human capacity' and is relevant today.
He said: "I think what<bb>'s inside this film is what we do to each other as human beings" Billie Eilish, Mark Ruffalo and Poor Things star Ramy Youssef wear pin.
Open letter to US President Joe Biden signed by nearly 400 artists.
Some 1,200 people were killed after Hamas gunmen attacked communities in southern Israel on 7 October.

They took around 250 hostages back into the Gaza Strip.
The UN has warned that famine in the Gaza Strip is almost inevitable.
More than 30,900 people have been killed in Gaza since then, the territory<bb>'s Hamas-run health ministry says.
Hayao Miyazaki wins his second Oscar after two decades.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68531229)
