+++
title = 'Concern as the gambling industry embraces AI'
date = 'Tue, 05 Mar 2024 00:06:16 GMT'
description = 'Campaigners worry that the gambling industry will not use AI responsibly.'
image = 'Concern_as_the_gambling_industry_embraces_AI__3166295462.png'
keywrods =  []
tags = "BBC" 
categories = "Technology" 
+++

# Concern as the gambling industry embraces AI

Danny Cheetham started visiting local bookies aged 18, gambling on the Fixed Odds Betting Terminals (FOBTs) It wasn<bb>'t long before he transitioned to online games.
The ease of access and the solitary nature of online gambling exacerbated his habits, he says.
The ethical dilemma here is whether the pursuit of profit is being prioritised.
EquinEdge uses AI to analyse data such as horse performance, track conditions, and jockey and trainer statistics.

It crunches this to generate a metric, such as the probability that a particular horse will win.
The hard work has been carried out by AI but gamblers must still decide how to interpret that metric.
Betby supplies the technology behind sportsbooks such as Sportradar and Betgenius.
It uses AI to personalise the betting experience and predict churn and lifetime value.

The AI is also being developed to recognise key behavioural shifts that might indicate the customer has a problem.
Like EquinEdge, Betby provides additional information about specific events.
Betby's algorithms depend on data such as user account activity, frequency of bets, amounts wagered, and types of bets placed.
From this data the technology can identify key traits which could indicate problem gambling or fraudulent behaviour.

That might be repeated losses or loss chasing, impulsive behaviour and overall spending.
Zoë Osmond, chief executive of GambleAware says, <bb>"All talk of using AI to improve customer experience needs to be carefully offset and managed.
We<bb>'ve clear evidence from many of the bereaved families we support that the AI algorithms are simply not acted on.
In the last four weeks of March 2023, 26% of the public had gambled online.

In the UK, in-play football bets were placed by 51% of active betting accounts.
It is also more profitable for gambling companies, than traditional bets made before the game.
Businesses need to balance this, and I think making a commitment to using AI for player safety should be a foundational component of any gambling business.
If you have been affected by any of the issues in this article you can visit  BBC Action Line for information and support.

For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-68304137)
