+++
title = "Funeral inquiry firm faces wind up order over debt"
date = 'Wed, 27 Mar 2024 11:24:04 GMT'
description = "Legacy Independent Funeral Directors owes thousands of pounds in unpaid burial and cremation fees."
image = 'Funeral_inquiry_firm_faces_wind_up_order_over_debt__3768681383.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "us", "uk"]
+++

# Funeral inquiry firm faces wind up order over debt

Hull City Council said its petition against Legacy Independent Funeral Directors would be considered at a court hearing on 9 April 2024.
The firm owed the authority £51,508.
46 for unpaid charges including cremation fees.
Two people are on bail after a police investigation into the company began on 6 March.

Legacy allegedly racked up nearly £55,000 in debt, of which £2,000 is said to be owed to East Riding of Yorkshire Council for unpaid burial fees.
Humberside Police said a specialist team of officers was also examining a quantity of ashes recovered from this site.
MP for Hull West and Hessle Emma Hardy said affected families would not have to pay for another funeral, with the local authority using funds given by the government.
The council obtained a County Court Judgement of £51,508.

46 in relation to unpaid fees and charges, including cremation fees.
It became apparent in February of last year that the debt owing to the council by Legacy Independent Funeral Directors Ltd was becoming significant.
Legacy, established in 2010, was given formal notice on a number of occasions between 4 January 2022 and 12 March 2024 that it would be struck off.
It was issued five First Gazette notices, meaning the company was in the process of being removed from the register and would no longer legally exist.

It is unclear how long the debt has been accumulating but the authority said it was trying to recover the remaining £40,938.
08 debt.
Man, 46, and woman, 23, arrested on suspicion of prevention of a lawful and decent burial, fraud by false representation and fraud by abuse of position.
They have since been released on bail while police inquiries continue.

East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire Police said its dedicated helpline numbers remain open.
You can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.
co.
uk.

You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet:                 @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or video:    https://www.
facebook.
com/bbchaveYourSay/videos?
v=1<bb>hl=en<bb>tweet=%20BBC%20Have%20Your%20Say%20channel.


