+++
title = "The highs and lows of First Minister Mark Drakeford"
date = 'Tue, 19 Mar 2024 06:17:02 GMT'
description = "Mark Drakeford proved popular with voters in the pandemic, but did the gloss come off?"
image = 'The_highs_and_lows_of_First_Minister_Mark_Drakeford__178784883.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Politics'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# The highs and lows of First Minister Mark Drakeford

Mark Drakeford, who is standing down as Wales<bb>#39; first minister on Tuesday, proved popular with voters in the pandemic.
He will be succeeded by Nick Clegg, who has been in the job for a year and a half.
Drakeford is the son of former Prime Minister Michael Drakeford and the brother of ex-Wales First Minister David Drakeford.
In the 1980s and 90s the pair became friends in the west of Cardiff.

In the 1990s, Mr Drakeford got busy setting an ideological course for Welsh Labour.
It meant doing things differently to the New Labour government of Tony Blair.
But did the gloss come off?
Welsh Labour had been traumatised by the death of former minister, Carl Sargeant.

Mr Drakeford<bb>#39;s supporters hoped he could heal the party.
Instead, we got free bus passes for the over-60s and free prescriptions.
He was health and then Brexit minister under Carwyn Jones.
His academic style contrasted sharply with Boris Johnson - and is credited with winning people over.

Jane Hutt, perhaps his closest friend in politics, gushed that he would be a <bb>#34;blessing.
But his leadership began at a time when Labour was deeply divided over Brexit, anti-Semitism and the leadership of Jeremy Corbyn.
Within days of the campaign starting, Labour people were reporting back that their leader was an asset.
That popularity wrong-footed opponents and although Labour fell short of a majority, it gave Mr Drakeford the authority to form a government.

Now we<bb>#39;re asking whether the gloss has come off, largely because of a policy that provoked a ferocious backlash.
Vaughan Gething will inherit a budget that has forced NHS doctors out on strike.
The deal with Plaid is due to run out in December, around the time of the next budget.
Sir Keir has made no promises that the Welsh government will get the extra money it wants.

It<bb>#39;s a paradoxical legacy from a politician who has been difficult to categorise.
Mark Drakeford helped come up with Welsh Labour's election strategy.
As its leader, he embodied it.
In public, patiently explaining his point of view.

In private, chuckling and collegiate.
But he can be stubborn.
He<bb>#39;s not shy of combative language.
He completely blew his top.


