+++
title = "Pupils are injured in crush at school gate"
date = 'Tue, 26 Mar 2024 18:40:53 GMT'
description = "The head teacher says a surge developed when the gate was not opened at the end of the school day."
image = 'Pupils_are_injured_in_crush_at_school_gate__2370545472.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "us"]
+++

# Pupils are injured in crush at school gate

Gordano School in Portishead, near Bristol, says the gate was not open in time at the end of the school day.
Glyn said his son had two black eyes and print marks on parts of his body from other students.
The school says it is investigating what happened and will update the community.
Glyn said he hoped the school was going to support the pupils.

His son Oliver, a Year 9 pupil, was feeling very subdued, he said.
Videos of the incident have been shared on social media.
Glyn grew in Liverpool at the time of the Hillsborough disaster.
96 Liverpool fans died after a crush at an FA Cup semi final.

Glyn Blundell said a gate was not opened in time for the end of the day.
This resulted in a surge of students trying to leave the school site.
Staff were immediately on the scene and several students visited the school<bb>'s first aider before going home.
Gordano School in Bristol has launched an investigation into the incident.

The school is offering support and running an online broadcast to address what happened.
The safety and wellbeing of students is of the upmost importance to the school, says a spokesman.
The incident is being investigated and the school will provide an update in due course.


