+++
title = "Alcaraz stung as bees swarm court at Indian Wells"
date = 'Fri, 15 Mar 2024 06:52:23 GMT'
description = "Carlos Alcaraz is stung on the side of the forehead when a swarm of bees descends on his Indian Wells quarter-final against Alexander Zverev."
image = 'Alcaraz_stung_as_bees_swarm_court_at_Indian_Wells__1547666424.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC', "india"]
+++

# Alcaraz stung as bees swarm court at Indian Wells

Umpire Mohamed Lahyani was forced to suspend play in the third game as the bees invaded the court in California.
The match was delayed for one hour and 40 minutes before defending champion Alcaraz won 6-3 6-1.
The Wimbledon champion said afterwards that it was the most unusual match he had ever played.
The bees were particularly attracted to the spidercam - a TV camera which moves above the court on cables.

The beekeeper used a vacuum to suck the bees out of the camera and into a cage so they could later be released.
The bees continued to trouble world number two Alcaraz on his return, and so the beekeeper was recalled.
Alcaraz will play Australian Open champion Jannik Sinner in Saturday<bb>#39;s semi-finals.
Sinner is now unbeaten in 19 matches, and Alcaraz does not know how he will approach the match.

The bees can be attracted to low frequency sound waves, and music bass, as they feel the vibrations.
Sinner extended his winning run to 19 by beating Czech player Jiri Lehecka.
American 17th seed Tommy Paul held his nerve to beat Norwegian ninth seed Casper Ruud 6-2 1-6 6-3.
He will face Australian Open runner-up Daniil Medvedev in the last four.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/tennis/68568976)
