+++
title = "Vaughan Gething set to be Wales' next first minister"
date = 'Sat, 16 Mar 2024 12:33:51 GMT'
description = "Vaughan Gething beats Jeremy Miles to narrowly win the Welsh Labour leadership election."
image = 'Vaughan_Gething_set_to_be_Wales_next_first_minister__3070582777.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Vaughan Gething set to be Wales' next first minister

Vaughan Gething wins Welsh Labour leadership election with 51.
7% of the vote.
He will become the first black man to lead Wales.
But his leadership campaign was marred by headlines about £200,000 of donations from a controversial waste company in Cardiff.

He beat his only rival Jeremy Miles, who took 48.
3%.
Mr Gething is expected to be sworn in as first minister next week.
Mr Gething said he was 'proud' to be a member of the Labour Party.

He said the party had lost its way in recent years and was looking for a new direction.
The Labour Party said it was 'delighted' with the result and was 'excited' about the new leader.
Mr Miles said he was proud to be the first black leader in any European country.
He also emphasised his commitment to devolution, calling it 'in my blood' Mr Miles said: <bb>#34;I congratulate Vaughan on his election.

I wish him every success for Wales<bb>#39; future.
Vaughan Gething accepted £200,000 for his campaign from a man twice convicted for environmental offences.
David Neal was given a suspended prison sentence in 2013 for illegally dumping waste on a conservation site.
Plaid Cymru leader Rhun ap Iorwerth called on him to return the cash.


