+++
title = "Sunak declines to back MP's Down's syndrome abortion law change"
date = 'Wed, 20 Mar 2024 17:33:57 GMT'
description = "Rishi Sunak declines to back Sir Liam Fox's call to outlaw the abortion after 24 weeks of foetuses diagnosed with Down's syndrome."
image = 'Sunak_declines_to_back_MP_s_Down_s_syndrome_abortion_law_change__1440222172.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland"]
+++

# Sunak declines to back MP's Down's syndrome abortion law change

Currently, pregnancies involving foetuses with Down<bb>#39;s syndrome can be terminated up to the point of birth.
Conservative MP Sir Liam Fox is leading a cross-party campaign to bring the time limit into line with foetus without serious disabilities.
Leading charity the Down's Syndrome Association has called for a review of the law in light of advances in medical science.
The time limit for most UK abortions was 24 weeks into pregnancy.

But it was up to full term where Down<bb>#39;s Syndrome was diagnosed.
Sir Liam said he would be putting forward an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill, currently going through Parliament, to equalise the time limit in line with disability and equality legislation.
Heidi Crowter argued that the rules discriminated against people with Down<bb>#39;s syndrome.
Mr Sunak replied it had <bb>#34;been longstanding convention that it would be for Parliament to decide whether to make any changes to the law on abortion.

He said these issues have always been treated as an individual matter of conscience.
There are estimated to be around 47,000 people with Down<bb>#39;s syndrome in the UK.
Doctors can authorise an abortion in England, Wales and Scotland if there is a substantial risk the child will be seriously handicapped.
Sir Liam has a long-standing interest in Down <bb>#39:s syndrome issues.

In 2022, a private member's bill he introduced passed into law.
It recognised people with Down<bb>#39;s syndrome as a specific minority group.
It made it a statutory duty that their specific social care needs were met.
It also recognised them as a 'minorities group' with a 'special needs' status.

It was also made a ' statutory duty' for them to be taken care of by the NHS.


