+++
title = 'Guy Ritchie reimagines The Gentlemen for Netflix series'
date = 'Wed, 06 Mar 2024 13:08:02 GMT'
description = 'Ray Winstone and Giancarlo Esposito are among the stars of a new TV adaptation of the 2019 film.'
image = 'Guy_Ritchie_reimagines_The_Gentlemen_for_Netflix_series__729939240.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = 'BBC'
+++

# Guy Ritchie reimagines The Gentlemen for Netflix series

Guy Ritchie's The Gentlemen is returning for an eight-part TV series.
The film took audiences on a journey of mayhem and marijuana.
Ritchie said there were themes and storylines which were <bb>"worth exploring<bb>#34%; further following the film.
The 2019 film starred Matthew McConaughey, Colin Farrell and Hugh Grant.

None of them have returned to the franchise to appear in the TV series.
Theo James takes the lead opposite supporting characters played by Vinnie Jones, Ray Winstone, Joely Richardson and Max Beesley.
The show follows a whole new cast of characters and makes almost no references to the film.
Although it focuses on a similar criminal underworld and other familiar Ritchie themes, the show makes no reference to the movie.

James said at the premiere, <bb>"the melding of the aristocracy and the underworld, and how those things collide in the bombastic way.
One of the show<bb>'s toughest and most assured characters is Susie Glass - played by Kaya Scodelario.
Britain is so defined by class, and we love it and hate for various reasons, but defining it in the melee of this was really fascinating for me.
Esposito said his character <bb>"is someone who is graceful, patient, cordial, and the British are that way.

The political references appear to be deliberate - another character is named Toni Blair.
So this seems to be a perfect collision of aristocratic culture and nature, but also not only criminality and non-humanity.
Ritchie is best known for films which focus on themes of violence, gangsters and drugs but with a uniquely British twist.
His films such as Snatch, RockNRolla and Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels were hugely successful at the box office in the late 1990s and early 2000s.

There was agreement  from the Evening Standard<bb>'s Vicky Jessop who awarded the series four stars.
The fact that the series comes across as a collection of short stories makes it far more palatable, and fun.
But Empire<bb>#38;s Beth Webb said: "The pace lags, Ritchie<bb>#37;s usual speed flagging without the confines of a feature film" The series was described as <bb>"messy, convoluted, at times absurd and frequently overblown.
But, says Radio Times' James Hibbs, it is an absolute boat-load of fun.

And Variety's Aramide Tinubu says the show's <bb>'hijinks, plots and gory violence will keep viewers entertained.
He adds the series ‘unfolds like a dazzling web of turmoil’ Several cast members walked the red carpet and later took part in a Q<bb>amp;A on stage.
The show<bb>'s premiere took place in London<bb>#38;s Covent Garden on Tuesday evening, with several cast members taking part in the Q<bb>A.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68488859)
