+++
title = "Clear 'no' for Irish referendums - Varadkar"
date = 'Sat, 09 Mar 2024 18:01:37 GMT'
description = "Counting continues but early indications show significant 'no' votes for both questions."
image = 'Clear_no_for_Irish_referendums_Varadkar__2038740283.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Politics'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Clear 'no' for Irish referendums - Varadkar

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Results for the family referendum have been announced from 38 of the 39 constituencies.
So far 32.
3% for <bb>'yes<bb>'" compared to 67.
7% for 'no' The highest <bb>#38;yes' votes have come in Laois-Offaly 75.

7%, Mayo at 75.
5% and Longford-Westmeath 74.
6%.
They disregarded the citizens assembly, they didn<bb>'t consult with opposition or other stakeholders," she said.

They failed to convince,<bb>" she said of the government's handling of the crisis.
We are in a state of emergency," she added.
It is a crisis that needs to be addressed" Aontú Leader Peadar Tóibín described the amendments as government <bb>"virtue signalling with vague language.
Senator Tom Clonan described the wording in the care referendum as ‘toxic’ to the fundamental human rights of disabled citizens.

He said a yes vote would have brought Ireland into international disrepute.
Voters were presented with two ballots - one white and one green.
The white ballot asked if voters accepted or rejected the Thirty-Ninth Amendment.
The green ballot asked voters to accept or reject the Fortieth Amendment of the Constitution Bill.

The amendment sought to expand the constitutional definition of family.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-68484651)
