+++
title = "Need an op? The hospitals in England with the worst waits"
date = 'Thu, 14 Mar 2024 11:35:16 GMT'
description = "BBC News analysis reveals wide variation across England in waits for planned hospital treatment."
image = 'Need_an_op_The_hospitals_in_England_with_the_worst_waits__3073465143.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Need an op? The hospitals in England with the worst waits

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Patients should start treatment within 18 weeks but at the worst-performing hospital trust, Milton Keynes, nearly two-thirds are waiting longer.
That is four times as many as are waiting over 18 weeks at the best-performing trust in the country.
Figures for the end of January show the overall waiting list had fallen slightly to 7.
58 million.

Manchester University NHS Trust said waits had now improved for the sort of treatment for which Ms Magnall had been waiting.
Trust said it was the largest in the country, running 10 hospitals, and took on many of the most complex cases from other hospitals across the region.
Milton Keynes University Hospital predicted it would return to <bb>#34;sensible waiting times within two years.
Tackling the hospital backlog is one of the government<bb>#39;s key priorities.

But it has failed to make significant inroads into reducing the total number waiting for treatment, which is now more than three million higher than before the Covid-19 pandemic.
NHS Confederation says much of it is out of the control of individual hospitals.
BBC News analysis also reveals ear, nose and throat (ENT) services are the specialism with the longest waits.
ENT has long argued more needs to be done in the community to stop so many patients being referred to hospital with uncomplicated problems such as rhinitis and tinnitus.

Royal College of Surgeons of England president Tim Mitchell says too many patients are being left in limbo.
He says political parties must set out detailed plans for how they will properly fund and support ongoing reform of the NHS.
Are you waiting for an operation on the NHS?
Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.

co.
uk.
You can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.
co.

uk.
Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet:                 @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or video:    https://www.
facebook.

com/bbchaveYourSay/videos?
v=1<bb>hl=en<bb>tweet=%20BBC%20Have%20Your%20Say%20logo.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-68479414)
