+++
title = "Sainz wins in Australia after Verstappen retires"
date = 'Sun, 24 Mar 2024 08:02:03 GMT'
description = "Carlos Sainz leads Charles Leclerc to a Ferrari one-two in the Australian Grand Prix as Max Verstappen's domination of Formula 1 stalls."
image = 'Sainz_wins_in_Australia_after_Verstappen_retires__282382875.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "red bull", "us", "uk"]
+++

# Sainz wins in Australia after Verstappen retires

Carlos Sainz leads Charles Leclerc to a Ferrari one-two in the Australian Grand Prix.
Max Verstappen retires with a brake failure after just four laps.
The race ended under a virtual safety car after a crash for George Russell.
The Mercedes driver lost control at Turn Six on the final lap.

Alonso and Russell were called to the stewards, who penalised the Spaniard 20 seconds, dropping him to eighth place.
It was a difficult end to a sobering day for Mercedes, on which their status as also-rans was apparently confirmed.
Lewis Hamilton retired after 16 laps with an engine failure.
Verstappen made a mistake at Turn Three on the second lap.

Sainz was able to pass the Red Bull down the curving <bb>'straight.
A lap after that smoke started to pour from his right rear wheel.
As he entered the pit lane, with his brakes now on fire, a clump of material flew out.
Sainz was the only non-Red Bull driver to win in Singapore last year.

He took advantage of Leclerc being stuck behind Norris in the first stint.
It was his first retirement since he won the same race two years ago.
He is now just three races into a season he started knowing he would lose his seat to Hamilton.
Russell<bb>'s crash meant Mercedes leave Australia pointless.

Lance Stroll was promoted to seventh, ahead of RB<bb>#38;s Yuki Tsunoda and Haas drivers Nico Hulkenberg and Kevin Magnussen.
Alex Albon, given team-mate Logan Sargent<bb>#40;s Williams for the weekend after a heavy crash on Friday, was 11th.


