+++
title = "The people keeping the historic foot ferry afloat"
date = 'Sun, 10 Mar 2024 07:08:42 GMT'
description = "Could the retro charm of these ancient river crossings be their saving grace?"
image = 'The_people_keeping_the_historic_foot_ferry_afloat__436955513.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# The people keeping the historic foot ferry afloat

Department for Transport figures show a decline in river ferries usage.
Down more than 10% from 20.
1m passenger journeys in 2012 to 17.
4m in 2022.

Horning Foot Ferry in Norfolk announced the service was ending because of a shortage of volunteers and a drop in the number of people using it.
Roy Truman, a descendant of Edward Smith, the captain of the Titanic, is head ferryman of the Butley Foot Ferry.
The 4m (12ft) rowing boat can take four passengers - or two with bicycles - across the creek between Butley and Orford in Suffolk.
The ferry has been on the site it is now since 1383.

It was used for getting the friars across the river to the churches for services.
It also carried livestock and crops to the market, rather than having to do an extra eight miles to go around.
Mr Truman sees it as a vital part of the area<bb>'s heritage.
Reedham Chain Ferry in Norfolk carries passengers across the River Yare.

It was a necessity as Orford at that time was a very important port and to carry anything by any distance you had to go by river.
Among them is teacher Mathew Hunt, who travels each day between his home in Halesworth, Suffolk, and Reedham Primary School.
Austrian water sports enthusiast Christian Zemann bought the Harwich Harbour Ferry, saving it from closure.
It is really quite magical in the mornings and I was relieved when it was back up and running again,' says Mr Zeeman, who lives in Suffolk.

The ferry connects Harwich with Shotley and Felixstowe.
One-way passenger numbers have grown from 12,000 a season to nearly 50,000 in eight years.
The ferry was once Lifeboat 24 from the ocean liner SS Canberra.
It has been marred by the spiralling costs of the ferry.

Fuel costs have risen 400% in the last eight years, says Mr Zemann.
Because his vessel can carry more than 12 passengers, he is regulated by the Maritime and Coastguard Agency.
This year it is more than £10,000 to run a foot ferry.
I don<bb>'t think it has to be the end.

But I think with a bit of clever marketing loads more ferries could work.
I don’t want to see it end.
I want it to continue.
I’m not going to stop.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-68428422)
