+++
title = "Gething confirmed as Wales' new first minister"
date = 'Wed, 20 Mar 2024 18:48:07 GMT'
description = "Vaughan Gething is backed as Wales' new first minister in a Senedd vote to succeed Mark Drakeford."
image = 'Gething_confirmed_as_Wales_new_first_minister__951582707.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "business"]
+++

# Gething confirmed as Wales' new first minister

Vaughan Gething is the first black leader of a national government in Europe.
He was backed by 27 Senedd members, Tory Andrew RT Davies had 13 votes and Plaid Cymru<bb>#39;s Rhun ap Iorwerth 11.
His name now goes to the King for approval.
Vaughan Gething, who represents Cardiff South and Penarth, narrowly won the Labour leadership election.

He was congratulated by the prime minister in the Commons on Wednesday, and spoke to Rishi Sunak later on Wednesday afternoon.
After the monarch responds, Mr Gething can be sworn in and turn his mind to appointing a cabinet.
Mr Gething said he wanted to promote <bb>#34;kinder, more effective politics.
He was anticipating a Labour victory in the UK general election due in the next 10 months.

Rishi Sunak congratulated Mr Gething, and wished his predecessor Mark Drakeford well.
UK Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said Mr Gething<bb>#39;s ascent to the top of the Welsh government was a historic moment.
Welsh Conservative Senedd group leader Andrew RT Davies called on him to make a <bb>#34;fresh start<bb>#34.
Plaid Cymru leader Rhun ap Iorwerth also welcomed Mr Gething to his new role.

But he warned questions around donations to Vaughan Gething<bb>#39;s campaign is now a serious cloud over the office of first minister.
He said: "If you are prepared to scrap plans for more politicians, to scrap the 20mph speed limit, and scrap the Sustainable Farming Scheme as it stands in its current form, we will work with you" Dauson Environmental Group, a business in Mr Gething<bb>#39;s Cardiff South and Penarth constituency, gave his campaign £200,000.
There were three Labour absences in the roll call vote - Rhianon Passmore, Buffy Williams and Jenny Rathbone - and three from the Conservatives.


