+++
title = "Five-time Olympic gold medallist Dame Laura Kenny announces retirement"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 12:12:03 GMT'
description = "Dame Laura Kenny, Britain's most successful female Olympian, announces her retirement from cycling."
image = 'Five_time_Olympic_gold_medallist_Dame_Laura_Kenny_announces_retirement__2446370363.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Five-time Olympic gold medallist Dame Laura Kenny announces retirement

The 31-year-old won five Olympic golds and seven World Championship titles in a distinguished career on the track.
She gave birth to her second child in July and had previously been targeting a fourth Olympics in Paris this year.
Kenny: "I have had an absolute blast but now is the time for me to hang that bike up" Kenny gave birth to her first son, Albie, in 2017 after which she returned to cycling.
British Cycling performance director Stephen Park said Kenny had only a slim chance of competing in Paris.

Kenny suffered a miscarriage in late 2021 and an ectopic pregnancy just months later.
Kenny said the logistics of being on the road with Albie during her bid to compete in the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo were very stressful.
34;I wasn<bb>#39;t thinking, <bb>#39:I really want to go on and win one.
I was thinking, and I really wanted to stay at home with the children' Kenny burst into public consciousness by winning gold in the women<bb>#39;s omnium and team pursuit at the London 2012 Olympics.

Kenny said that was the <bb>#34;absolute highlight' of her career, with the 2012 Games a life-changing two weeks during which her relationship with Jason also became public.
At the Rio Games, Kenny became the first British woman to win four Olympic titles.
Kenny won her last world champion rainbow jersey in 2016, on the London track where she made her name.
She is also a 14-time European champion and won three medals, including two golds, at the Commonwealth Games.

April<bb>#39;s Track Nations Cup in Canada would have been her last opportunity to earn the points needed to qualify.


