+++
title = "'We don't live, we're just alive': Afghan girls despair at Taliban school ban"
date = 'Sat, 23 Mar 2024 00:03:17 GMT'
description = "The new term has begun, but secondary school remains closed to girls for another academic year."
image = 'We_don_t_live_we_re_just_alive_Afghan_girls_despair_at_Taliban_school_ban__2964348583.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "us"]
+++

# 'We don't live, we're just alive': Afghan girls despair at Taliban school ban

More than 900 days have now passed since girls over 12 were first banned.
Taliban have repeatedly promised they would be readmitted once a number of issues were resolved.
But they have made little comment as a third new school year started this week.
The BBC has asked the Taliban<bb>#39;s education minister for an explanation, but he has so far not responded.

Unicef says the ban has impacted some 1.
4m Afghan girls.
Former classmates Habiba, Mahtab and Tamana spoke to the BBC last year.
The hope they described 12 months ago is still there, but seems to have dwindled.

The Taliban spokesman said there had been problems and shortcomings in getting the ban lifted.
Zainab - not her real name - is among the 330,000 girls who should have started secondary school this March.
She had held onto hope that she and fellow girls in Grade Six would be able to continue, up to the point her headmaster told her they would not be able.
Zainab's only option is classes at government-controlled religious schools, or madrassas.

Her father has attempted to leave Afghanistan, but so far without success.
Now, she tells the BBC: <bb>#34;I feel like I have buried my dreams in a dark hole.
BBC Dars is an education programme for Afghan children, including girls aged 11-16 barred from school.
Girls have also been able to keep up their studies by following courses online, or watching programmes like BBC Dars.

BBC News Afghanistan TV and radio satellite channel, BBC Pashto and BBC News Dari Facebook and YouTube channels.
Afghanistan's young girls are still being married off when they reach puberty.
The ban is even extended to younger girls if they appear to have gone through puberty.
Many families are struggling to get enough to eat - so access to education is not seen as a priority for their daughters.

The ban on a secondary education is far from the only change these girls are facing, however.
In December 2022, women were told they could no longer attend university.
She must wear the veil (hijab) and stay at home.
He doesn<bb>#39;t hold out much hope for the rules changing under the current regime.

There are hopes, says Amnesty, that the secret schools and online education can be expanded.
But until that happens, girls like Habiba, Mahtab and Tamana will remain at home.
Habiba: <bb>#34;We feel ourselves in a real dungeon.
39; The government doesn<bb>#39;t have a bit of thought or understanding for girls, says a 16-year-old.

Her friend Tamana is not so sure.
She says: <bb>#34;They count the girls as nothing.


