+++
title = "Blinken in Middle East to discuss post-war Gaza"
date = 'Wed, 20 Mar 2024 17:32:34 GMT'
description = "The US secretary of state lands in Saudi Arabia, as fighting rages around Gaza's al-Shifa hospital."
image = 'Blinken_in_Middle_East_to_discuss_post_war_Gaza__2436158908.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "gaza", "israel"]
+++

# Blinken in Middle East to discuss post-war Gaza

U.S. Secretary of State Tony Blinken is in the Middle East.  He is meeting with Arab leaders to discuss a post-war plan for Gaza.

Israeli forces have stepped up air strikes on Gaza City.  But there are few signs that a breakthrough in the conflict is imminent.  Mr Blinken is expected to meet the Saudi Crown Prince, Mohammed bin Salman, at the royal palace on Wednesday night.
He was greeted by waiting officials, including Mazin al-Himali from the Saudi foreign ministry, who embraced Mr Blinken at the airport.

U.S. State department spokesman Matthew Miller said they would discuss efforts to reach a ceasefire agreement and increase aid deliveries to Gaza.
A UN-backed food security assessment this week said 1.

1 million people in Gaza were struggling with catastrophic hunger and starvation.  Mr Blinken will travel to Cairo on Thursday to meet Egyptian leaders.  All parties including Israel would commit to pursuing a two-state solution.  Saudi Arabia would normalise relations with Israel in return for access to advanced US weapons and an American-backed civilian nuclear power programme.

Some of those familiar with the plan concede it feels ambitious given the lack of breakthrough on a ceasefire agreement.  President Joe Biden has warned Israel that it would be a mistake to launch an offensive in the southern city of Rafah.
Mr Netanyahu said Israel was determined to complete the elimination of Hamas battalions in Rafah, and there is no way to do this without a ground incursion.
More than a million displaced civilians are sheltering in the city.

More than 31,900 people have been killed in Gaza since the start of the war, according to the territory;s Hamas-run health ministry.
The conflict began when about 1,200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage in Hamas attacks on southern Israel on 7 October.  Witnesses say the strikes targeted homes belonging to members of Hamas.
Amjad Hathat was reportedly killed along with 11 other emergency committee members.

Mr Tawfiq said that the situation had deteriorated in his area after a period of relative calm that followed the withdrawal of Israeli forces in mid-January.

1.1 million people in Gaza are struggling with catastrophic hunger and starvation.
A man-made famine in the north of the territory is imminent between now and May.

Israeli military said its troops killed approximately 90 gunmen and questioned 300 suspects during what it called the ;precise operation;" in and around al-Shifa.  The military said it was taking measures to avoid harm to civilians and keep the hospital functioning.  It said the other people killed were patients and displaced civilians sheltering there.


