+++
title = "Boeing plane lands without panel in Oregon"
date = 'Sat, 16 Mar 2024 12:15:19 GMT'
description = "No-one is injured after the 737-800 lands without an external panel, which went unnoticed in flight."
image = 'Boeing_plane_lands_without_panel_in_Oregon__1535302975.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Boeing plane lands without panel in Oregon

A missing external panel on a Boeing plane was detected when it landed at an airport in the US state of Oregon on Friday.
United Airlines says the missing panel was found when the plane landed at the airport in Oregon.
The missing panel is believed to have been on the plane's left wing.
United flight 433 left San Francisco and landed in Medford, Oregon.

No-one was injured - the missing panel went unnoticed during the flight.
The 25-year-old Boeing 737-800 was carrying 139 passengers and 6 crew.
An investigation would be carried out to better understand how the damage occurred.
The incident onboard Alaska Airlines flight 1282 left a gaping hole in the side of the plane and forced an emergency landing.

All outgoing and incoming flights were paused at the airport to search for debris, none was found.
Initial findings of a probe found that four key bolts that were meant to lock the unused door to the fuselage appeared to be missing.
Mr Whitaker said that Boeing would be held accountable for any future failure or refusal to comply with the FAA.
He said that the FAA would be responsible for any failure or failure to comply.

The FAA is responsible for the safety and security of the nation's airspace and airspace.
At least 50 people were injured after a Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner suddenly dropped without warning.
Earlier this month, fumes detected in the cabin of an Alaska Airlines Boeing 737-800 bound for Phoenix forced pilots to return to Portland airport.
Boeing has told airlines  that pilots need to check their seats after reports said a flight attendant accidentally hit a switch.


