+++
title = "Workaholics Anonymous: 'I couldn't step away from the computer'"
date = 'Sat, 16 Mar 2024 03:06:44 GMT'
description = "We speak to people addicted to work after writer James Graham reveals he has the condition."
image = 'Workaholics_Anonymous_I_couldn_t_step_away_from_the_computer__1068269984.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Technology'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Workaholics Anonymous: 'I couldn't step away from the computer'

Playwright James Graham turned to Workaholics Anonymous for help after realising work addiction had become a problem for him.
He joined a support group session to hear how it has affected other people<bb>#39;s lives.
One woman describes how she had spent the evening struggling against the urge to meet a self-imposed deadline after putting her son to bed.
Workaholics Anonymous brings together people from across the UK.

The BBC was invited to join the meeting with the agreement of all the members.
The organisation describes itself as a judgement-free place where people can talk openly about their struggles.
For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.
Caroline Walker says she knew she had a problem just over three years ago.

For her, there is a clear distinction between people who overwork and those who have a work addiction.
There is no leader, and people work through a recovery programme with the help of other group members.
playwright James Graham said his own workaholism had similar roots.
He struggled to form intimate relationships as a result of the condition.

At one point he had two plays, Quiz and Ink, running simultaneously in the West End.
He said: "90% of me was just like really happy and proud of that,<bb>#34; Work addiction is not recognised as a medical condition in the UK.
It is a condition that affects people's ability to cope with their work.
It can also affect their relationship with family and friends.

The condition can lead to depression, anxiety and even physical and mental health problems.
Work addiction can manifest in different ways for men and women, therapist says.
Financial insecurity can also play a part in the urge to work, he adds.
Employers should be wary of allowing their employees to over-work, says Lee Fernandes, lead therapist at the UK Addiction Treatment Group.

Workaholics Anonymous has close to 20 weekly meetings based in the UK.
Many say the meetings often have more women than men in attendance.
A spokesperson for the organisation says growing numbers are joining the weekly groups.
While help is at hand, recovery is a lifelong process.


