+++
title = 'Nexus counselling contract extended for one year'
date = 'Mon, 04 Mar 2024 17:41:28 GMT'
description = 'Health minister announces a 12-month extension in funding for a service for victims of sexual violence.'
image = 'Nexus_counselling_contract_extended_for_one_year__752775968.png'
keywrods =  []
tags = "BBC" 
categories = "World" 
+++

# Nexus counselling contract extended for one year

Nexus was awarded a three-year contract in April 2019 to provide the counselling service, with an option for two one-year extensions.
Health minister Robin Swann said the extension will allow proper consideration, decision and implementation of the best way forward for counselling services of this nature.
Nexus chief executive Joanne Barnes said the charity is delighted for victims and survivors.
She said there is some work yet to be done to look at what a service will look like in this interim year.

Mr Swann said there will be close monitoring of performance throughout the extension.
Ms Barnes has previously said there had been some disagreement with the DoH around payment when a client does not attend a session.
Nexus counts such sessions as delivered because they are deducted from clients<bb>' total allowance of 12 sessions and they move on to the next one.
SDLP East Derry MLA Cara Hunter welcomed the extension.

Ms Hunter submitted an urgent oral question regarding the service to Mr Swann after it was announced the Department for Health had ended its contract with Nexus without a replacement service in place.
She said: <bb>"In the days since the initial announcement we have heard from numerous victims and survivors about just how important these services have been.
Unite union has written to Mr Swann to seek an urgent meeting due to concerns for the future employment of those who provide this service.
Sinn Féin MLA Linda Dillon also welcomed the extension of the contract.

Unite regional equalities and women<bb>'s officer Taryn Trainor said employees are <bb>"fearful for their future employment.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-northern-ireland-68472495)
