+++
title = "Life sentence for man who murdered couple with fentanyl"
date = 'Fri, 22 Mar 2024 12:31:05 GMT'
description = "Det Supt Rob Kirby says Luke D'Wit is one of the most dangerous men he has dealt with."
image = 'Life_sentence_for_man_who_murdered_couple_with_fentanyl__542834621.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "business", "drug", "uk", "murder"]
+++

# Life sentence for man who murdered couple with fentanyl

Stephen Baxter, 61, and his wife Carol, 64, were found dead at their home in West Mersea, Essex, in April 2023.
Luke DWit, 34, used fake identities to manipulate the couple before he laced their medication with the drug, a trial at Chelmsford Crown Court heard.
Describing the moment she found them dead, she said: <bb>#34;I have never known an emotional pain to physically hurt so much.
It was like my insides were on fire.

They took him under their wing and would let him join in.
They were like family to me.
The defendant first met the Baxters between 2012 and 2013.
He was asked to build a website for their shower mat company, Cazsplash.

Mrs Baxter had befriended Wit through the business and trusted him to help her manage her thyroid condition, Hashimoto’s disease.
D<bb>#39;Wit had photos on his phone of Mr and Mrs Baxter dead in their armchairs when it was seized by the police.
They were taken by the defendant who had installed a <bb>#34;mobile security surveillance application on the device, she said.
Miss Baxter, 22, told the trial: "I think mum got a bit desperate" You can receive Breaking News on a smartphone or tablet via the BBC News App.

