+++
title = 'Sweden formally joins Nato military alliance'
date = 'Thu, 07 Mar 2024 19:05:06 GMT'
description = 'Sweden joins Nato, becoming the military alliances second new member since Russias full-scale invasion of Ukraine.'
image = 'Sweden_formally_joins_Nato_military_alliance__1464192707.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "ukraine", "russia"]
+++

# Sweden formally joins Nato military alliance

Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson said that unity and solidarity would be Sweden<bb>'s <bb>"guiding lights.
The handover of documents took place at a ceremony two years after Sweden applied to join the military alliance following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine.
Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg posted on X that Sweden brings with it <bb>"capable armed forces and a first-class defence industry.
Nato will continue to stand for freedom and democracy for generations to come, US President Joe Biden says.

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken: We've known from day one that we would be here one day.
Sweden applied to join the defence alliance after Russia<bb>'s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022.
But its request was blocked by two members.
Turkey initially withheld approval in a row over what it called Sweden<bb>"s support to Kurdish separatists.

It eventually lifted its veto in January of this year.
Sweden joined Nato last year, doubling the length of the alliance<bb>'s border with Russia.
All Nato members are expected to help an ally which comes under attack.
A flag-raising ceremony will take place at the Nato headquarters in Brussels on Monday to mark Sweden's accession.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-68506223)
