+++
title = "Olympic great Kenny announces retirement"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 12:12:03 GMT'
description = "Dame Laura Kenny, Britain's most successful female Olympian, announces her retirement from cycling."
image = 'Olympic_great_Kenny_announces_retirement__2434735544.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Olympic great Kenny announces retirement

The 31-year-old won five Olympic golds and seven World Championship titles in a distinguished career on the track.
She gave birth to her second child in July and had previously been targeting a fourth Olympics in Paris this year.
Kenny: "I have had an absolute blast but now is the time for me to hang that bike up" Kenny gave birth to her first son, Albie, in 2017 after which she returned to cycling.
British Cycling performance director Stephen Park said Kenny had only a slim chance of competing in Paris.

Kenny suffered a miscarriage in late 2021 and an ectopic pregnancy just months later.
Kenny said the logistics of being on the road with Albie during her bid to compete in the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo were very stressful.
34;I wasn<bb>#39;t thinking, <bb>#39:I really want to go on and win one.
I was thinking, and I really wanted to stay at home with the children' Kenny burst into public consciousness by winning gold in the women<bb>#39;s omnium and team pursuit at the London 2012 Olympics.

Kenny said that was the <bb>#34;absolute highlight' of her career, with the 2012 Games a life-changing two weeks during which her relationship with Jason also became public.
At the Rio Games, Kenny became the first British woman to win four Olympic titles.
Kenny is also a 14-time European champion and won three medals, including two golds, at the Commonwealth Games.
April<bb>#39;s Track Nations Cup in Canada would have been her last opportunity to earn the points needed to qualify.

Andy Anson, chief executive officer of the British Olympic Association, said what Kenny had achieved is <bb>#34;nothing short of extraordinary.
Kenny, made a Dame in the 2021 New Year<bb>#39;s Honours, said she was open to doing anything and everything in the next chapter of her life.
Kenny said she hopes to be at the Games in some capacity, whether that could be some kind of academy.
Joanna Rowsell won team pursuit gold with Kenny in 2012 and 2016.

Dani Rowe, who was also part of the team pursuit quartet in London, wrote a long tribute to their friendship.
She added: <bb>#34;But most of all thank you for being you.
You haven<bb>#39;t changed one bit' Four-time Tour de France champion Chris Froome called Kenny<bb>#39;s career <bb>#34;spectacular.


