+++
title = "What is the new extremism definition and who could be listed?"
date = 'Thu, 14 Mar 2024 15:29:21 GMT'
description = "Groups deemed extremist will be blocked from government funding and meeting officials."
image = 'What_is_the_new_extremism_definition_and_who_could_be_listed__306012003.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# What is the new extremism definition and who could be listed?

Communities Secretary Michael Gove set out the changes in the House of Commons.
It says extremism is the promotion or advancement of an ideology based on violence, hatred or intolerance.
Mr Gove listed organisations that he said were a cause for concern under the new definition and would be assessed.
Gove unveils definition of 'extremism' in speech to MPs.

New Counter-Extremism Centre of Excellence will be launched to gather intelligence.
Groups and individuals labelled extremist will have the right to seek reassessment and submit new evidence to a review.
Organisations or individuals added to the list will not be criminalised, unlike terrorist groups.
Prime Minister Rishi Sunak warned democracy was being targeted by extremists.

He said these groups were radicalising young people and driving polarisation.
Concerns have been raised that the new definition could deepen divisions.
Some Conservative MPs have suggested people like anti-abortion campaigners, or those with gender-critical views could end up being captured.
The new definition does not create a criminal offence.

It does not prevent the government from financing organisations or individuals.
The move has been criticised by three Conservative ex-home secretaries who have warned against using extremism to score political points in a general election year.
They say it could have unintended consequences, for example groups not deemed extremist could say they had been cleared.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-68564429)
