+++
title = "Israel reveals its rewritten Eurovision song"
date = 'Mon, 11 Mar 2024 11:01:05 GMT'
description = "The lyrics have been revised, after Israel's initial entry was rejected for its perceived political overtones."
image = 'Israel_reveals_its_rewritten_Eurovision_song__2445034092.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Israel reveals its rewritten Eurovision song

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Eden Golan will now sing Hurricane, a rewritten version of October Rain.
The original version was thought to reference the 7 October Hamas attacks on Israel.
The lyrics now tell the story of a woman experiencing a personal crisis.
The European Broadcasting Union (EBU) rejected October Rain last month.

The spoken-word section, which Golan delivers in Hebrew, has also been altered.
The original references to poisoned air and dead children have been switched for the more generic: <bb>"No need for big words, only prayers.
Even if it<bb>'s hard to see, you always leave me one small light.
Israel has won Euorvision four times since its first appearance, in 1973.

Last year, it was represented by pop sensation Noa Kirel, whose acrobatic dance number Unicorn placed third.
But the country has faced serious opposition to its participation in this year<bb>'s contest.
Ms Linard also told parliament on Wednesday she would ask public broadcaster Radio-télévision belge de la Communauté française (RTBF) to voice the concerns to the EBU.
Her Flemish counterpart, Benjamin Dalle, said an Israeli suspension would be appropriate while so many Palestinian civilians were suffering.

Olly Alexander also endorsed a statement accusing Israel of genocide.
Israeli official later told the UK<bb>'s Daily Telegraph newspaper the arguments were <bb>"absurd' Israel launched an air and ground campaign in Gaza after Hamas attacks in October.
More than 30,800 people have been killed in Gaza since then.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68533031)
