+++
title = 'Five ways to save on train tickets as fares rise'
date = 'Sun, 03 Mar 2024 02:11:35 GMT'
description = 'As rail fares rise on Sunday, we find the ways passengers can keep journeys as cheap as possible.'
image = 'Five_ways_to_save_on_train_tickets_as_fares_rise__440313945.png'
keywrods =  []
tags = "BBC" 
categories = "World" 
+++

# Five ways to save on train tickets as fares rise

The jump is likely to be unwelcome for rail passengers, adding to the rising cost of living seen in recent years.
It comes at a time when passengers have faced disruption to services due to strikes by rail workers over the past 18 months.
Regulated fares cover about 45% of fares, including season tickets.
Advance train tickets are usually released up to 12 weeks before your departure date, although some go on sale as far as 24 weeks in advance.

These types of tickets are often the cheapest way to travel on the railways if you're happy to go during a fixed time.
Sometimes they can be available to buy up to an hour before your journey.
Split ticketing means you can take the same number of trains you normally would for your journey, but can save money by splitting your journey into multiple tickets.
Split My Fare says on average, customers save 26% by doing this - although it<bb>'s not always possible on some journeys.

You can get up to a third off the ticket price when travelling in groups of three to nine adults off-peak.
The group must be travelling together, and individual rail cards cannot be used when booking a group ticket.
For example, the 16-25 Railcard costs £30, is valid for one year and gives you one third off each ticket you buy.
Flexi Season ticket will offer a minimum of 20% discount on an equivalent monthly season ticket.

Check with your employer to see if they offer a season ticket loan to help you spread the cost, interest free.
Train companies have also introduced a range of flexible tickets aimed at commuters and workers.
You can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.
co.

uk.
Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet:                 @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or video:    https://www.
facebook.

com/bbchaveYourSay/videos?
v=1<bb>hl=en<bb>tweet=%20BBC%20Have%20Your%20Say%20logo.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-64827711)
