+++
title = "Rowers criticise Thames sewage after Boat Race"
date = 'Sat, 30 Mar 2024 23:05:42 GMT'
description = "High levels of E. coli were found in a stretch of the River Thames used in the Boat Race."
image = 'Rowers_criticise_Thames_sewage_after_Boat_Race__1298694889.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "us", "uk"]
+++

# Rowers criticise Thames sewage after Boat Race

High levels of E.coli have been found in the river where the race was taking place.
The Environment Agency has warned of the dangers of human waste in the water.
The number of sewage spills has more than doubled in the last five years, the agency said.

The figures are expected to rise again in the next few years.
Cambridge won both male and female races.
Cox Jenkins said: <bb>"This morning I was throwing up and I wasn<bb>'t sure I was going to be able to race.
It would be a lot nicer if there wasn’t as much poo in the water.

The UK has combined sewage systems which mean rain and sewage share the same pipes, so if there is too much rain, sewage works can be overwhelmed.
River Action said the source of the pollution was from Thames Water discharging sewage directly into the river and its tributaries.
Thames Water says it has experienced higher than average long-term rainfall.
They say the government is taking tough action to hold them to account.

The company has published plans to upgrade over 250 of its sites in the capital.
It says the overflows are designed to operate when the sewer network is about to be overwhelmed.


