+++
title = "UK to pay failed asylum seekers to move to Rwanda"
date = 'Wed, 13 Mar 2024 09:56:59 GMT'
description = "The Home Office is offering up to £3,000 to encourage people to relocate to the East African country."
image = 'UK_to_pay_failed_asylum_seekers_to_move_to_Rwanda__551280044.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "business"]
+++

# UK to pay failed asylum seekers to move to Rwanda

Failed asylum seekers are to be offered up to £3,000 to move to Rwanda.
Scheme is understood to be a variation of an existing voluntary returns scheme.
It will be open to anyone whose asylum claim has been rejected by the UK.
In particular it is aimed at those who cannot return to their home countries.

The government is already trying to implement a separate scheme under which people deemed to have arrived illegally in the UK would be sent to Rwanda.
That plan had been blocked by the courts, which raised concerns about Rwanda<bb>#39;s safety.
In order to overcome those objections, the government is currently trying to pass its Safety of Rwanda Bill, which would deem the East African country to be a safe place.
Failed asylum seekers would be allowed to legally work in the country.

They would also get additional support upon arrival in Rwanda.
Scheme will also be opened up to other people with no right to remain in the UK.
There is no date for when the first people would be relocated.
The Home Office says payments under the current scheme can pay for temporary accommodation in the destination country, or education costs, or the cost of setting up a business.

Of these, 3,319 received a <bb>#34;reintegration package<bb>#34;" or flights paid by the Home Office - the highest number since 2010.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-68550404)
