+++
title = "The Scotsman swapping sprinting for a shot at NFL"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 09:55:36 GMT'
description = "Born in Nigeria. Bred in Glasgow. Bound for the NFL? Praise Olatoke has swapped the running track for the gridiron field as he looks to fly the flag for Scotland stateside."
image = 'The_Scotsman_swapping_sprinting_for_a_shot_at_NFL__4236697919.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Sports'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland"]
+++

# The Scotsman swapping sprinting for a shot at NFL

The 23-year-old finds himself in the final weeks of the NFL<bb>#39;s International Player Pathway.
16 athletes from the around the world who may never before have known the brown leather of a football are given the opportunity to step on to the sport<bb>#40;s biggest stage.
Olatoke has taken that Scottish gallus streak stateside.
American football has grown exponentially in the UK over the past decade.

Yet still, there are probably not many kids in Glasgow telling their pals they are going to play in the NFL one day.
latoke, on the other hand, told anyone who would listen.
It<bb>#39;s always been something since I was 15 I wanted to do.
Olatoke is part of the IPP<bb>#39;s class of 2024 - which includes Wales rugby union superstar Louis Rees-Zammit.

The former Ohio State runner will put his skills to the test in front of scouts from across the United States.
Olatoke says it would be sick to represent Scotland in American football.
Greenock-born Lawrence Tynes kicked field goals in both of the New York Giants<bb>#39; 2008 and 2012 Vince Lombardi trophy successes.
The saltire has been flown at the Super Bowl.

34;You don<bb>#39;t work this hard for this long, and put yourself through all this, to not at least try and win a Super Bowl.
It<bb>#38;s definitely something I want to see for myself in the future.


