+++
title = "Harry and Meghan reach out to Kate after cancer news"
date = 'Sat, 23 Mar 2024 13:27:36 GMT'
description = "Prince Harry and Meghan say they hope Catherine and her family can heal privately and in peace."
image = 'Harry_and_Meghan_reach_out_to_Kate_after_cancer_news__1696047197.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC', "cancer", "us", "uk"]
+++

# Harry and Meghan reach out to Kate after cancer news

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have reached out to the Prince and Princess of Wales, the BBC understands.
The contact is understood to have been made privately.
Prince Harry and Meghan said they wished health and healing for Catherine.
The princess is confident that she will make a full recovery.

Catherine had abdominal surgery in January, but it was not known then there was any cancer.
Subsequent tests revealed cancer had been present.
King Charles has also recently been diagnosed with cancer.
Harry flew to London in early February to see his father a day after he began treatment.

In an interview afterwards with ABC News, Harry said he was grateful for the brief time with his father.
He also agreed families could be brought closer by such health concerns.
He did not meet his brother during the trip.
US President Joe Biden<bb>#39;s press secretary, Karine Jean-Pierre, said Catherine<bb>#38;s news was terrible.

In his memoir, Spare, Harry wrote about feuding with William.
The brothers have rarely been spotted in each other<bb>#39;s company in recent years.
In 2022, William and Catherine and Harry and Meghan unexpectedly appeared together to greet crowds outside Windsor Castle following the death of the Queen.


