+++
title = "Theresa May to stand down as MP at next election"
date = 'Fri, 08 Mar 2024 13:26:23 GMT'
description = "The former prime minister, 67, has held the Berkshire seat of Maidenhead for 27 years."
image = 'Theresa_May_to_stand_down_as_MP_at_next_election__3283982266.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Theresa May to stand down as MP at next election

Theresa May will stand down as an MP at the next general election.
She has represented Maidenhead in Berkshire for 27 years.
She is one of 64 MPs elected as Conservatives set to quit Parliament.
She said it would enable her to spend more time on causes close to her heart.

Theresa May is the new leader of the Conservative Party.
She was elected in a landslide victory in May's general election.
She is the first female leader of a major party to win a general election since Margaret Thatcher in 1972.
May is also the first woman to become Prime Minister of the UK since 1997.

The former Remainer brought several leading Leavers into her government.
But she failed to overcome opposition within her party towards her vision.
She called a surprise snap election in 2017 in a bid to strengthen her hand.
But it went disastrously wrong, with the Conservatives losing their majority.

Mrs May announced her resignation in her local paper, the Maidenhead Advertiser.
This is already more than the 74 MPs who stood down ahead of the last election in 2019, and the 31 who quit in the run-up to the snap election in 2017.
The shadow secretary of state for women and equalities, Anneliese Dodds, said the decision was further evidence of a lack of confidence.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-68509239)
