+++
title = "What is Hong Kong's tough new security law?"
date = 'Tue, 19 Mar 2024 11:20:41 GMT'
description = "With a legislature dominated by the pro-Beijing camp, the bill was passed in a matter of days."
image = 'What_is_Hong_Kong_s_tough_new_security_law__517832052.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "china"]
+++

# What is Hong Kong's tough new security law?

A full draft of Article 23, which covers treason, sedition and state secrets, was tabled on 8 March.
It follows a national security law (NSL) imposed by Beijing in 2020.
Authorities credit it with restoring stability in the city after widespread pro-democracy protests.
Mr Lee says he will sign the bill into law and gazette it on 23 March.

The law was tabled a week after the end of a month-long consultation period.
China's Vice Premier Ding Xuexiang said swift enactment of the law would protect national interests.
In 2003, following a three-month consultation period, an attempt to pass the bill was shelved after massive protests.
Back then, half a million Hong Kongers came out onto the streets in protest.

This second attempt to introduce the law saw a 99% support rate during its public consultation.
The draft bill expands on the Beijing-imposed national security law.
It already criminalises secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces.
The city<bb>#39;s leader will also be given authority to ban organisations and companies from operating in Hong Kong, should they be found <bb>#34;working for foreign forces' Doxxing - the malicious act of publishing people<bb>#39;s personal information online - of police officers was cited as a possible example of such an offence.

Authorities have repeatedly cited unrest due to the months-long pro-democracy protests in 2019 as grounds for legislating this new offence.
New law criminalises treason, insurrection, inciting a member of the Chinese army to mutiny, or colluding with an external force to damage or weaken public infrastructure.
Critics say the new law will give authorities yet another tool to crack down on dissidents and erode freedoms promised to the former British colony when it returned to Chinese rule.
The current Beijing-imposed national security law has already silenced dissent and the voices of civil society.

The rapid progression of legislation under Article 23 shows the government<bb>#39;s eagerness to further dismantle human rights protection and turn its back on its international obligations, she said.
Mr Lai questioned if due process could be upheld when lawmakers are asked to scrutinise a bill so quickly.
Hong Kong has also not seen any large-scale demonstrations in the past three-and-a-half years.
Former lawmaker Emily Lau believes the new law is <bb>#34;all part of Beijing<bb>#39;s policy towards Hong Kong.

Hong Kong then and now are like two worlds,<bb>#34; she said.
Hong Kong is a city of hope and opportunity" "We need to make sure that Hong Kong's future is safe and secure," she added.
The future of Hong Kong is very, very bright," she concluded.


