+++
title = "How Dragon Ball caused a diplomatic spat"
date = 'Fri, 08 Mar 2024 16:33:16 GMT'
description = "Akira Toriyama's phenomenon was so popular in Mexico that it led to tensions with the Japanese Embassy."
image = 'How_Dragon_Ball_caused_a_diplomatic_spat__3005531807.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# How Dragon Ball caused a diplomatic spat

The death of Dragon Ball creator Akira Toriyama has been mourned by fans of the comic book and animated series.
But amid the tributes, fans have also been recalling how the series sparked a diplomatic incident between Japan and Mexico almost exactly six years ago.
Plans for public screenings in various Mexican cities ran into copyright snarl-ups and the Japanese Embassy was forced to step in.
Toei Animation has not authorised these public showings and does not support or sponsor any of these events, nor do we or any of our titles endorse any institution exhibiting the unauthorised episode.

A letter from the Japanese Embassy in Mexico, dated 16 March 2018, to the governor of the state of Coahuila, echoed the concerns.
An estimated 15,000 people gathered in the city<bb>'s Plaza de la Mexicanidad on 17 March 2018.
Mayor Armando Cabada successfully negotiated with the studios to allow the screening of the second-to-last episode of the series.
The outpouring of love for the series on that day was also on show on Friday, after Toriyama’s studio announced his death at the age of 68.

The global phenomenon, which made its debut in 1984, is inspired by the 16th Century Chinese novel Journey to the West.
In Dragon Ball, a boy called Son Goku goes on a journey to find seven magical spheres which, when gathered, awake a dragon that grants wishes.
For some readers, Dragon Ball continued to be a part of their adult lives.
Goku is not the only one seeking the dragon balls, and his many struggles and battles provide an opportunity for him to make friends, enemies, and mature.

The series is available on DVD and Blu-ray in North America and Europe.
For more information on the series, visit the official website.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-68509773)
