+++
title = "What can I do if I can't pay my energy bill?"
date = 'Thu, 07 Mar 2024 12:25:57 GMT'
description = "If you're struggling to afford your gas and electricity bills, what options are available?"
image = 'What_can_I_do_if_I_can_t_pay_my_energy_bill__3016703363.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland", "us", "uk"]
+++

# What can I do if I can't pay my energy bill?

Energy prices will fall in April, but many households will still struggle to pay their bills.
Some will need to repay debt to suppliers and many will worry about future levels of financial support.
For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.
From April, energy bills will fall by more than 12% for most people in England, Scotland and Wales.

Average household paying for dual fuel by direct debit will pay £1,690 a year.
That<bb>'s a drop of £238 (or about £20 a month) from the previous energy price cap.
Under Ofgem rules, your supplier must work with you to agree a payment plan.
If you don<bb>'t agree one, they might try to force you to have prepayment meter installed or  switch an existing smart meter to prepayments mode.

It estimated that 2m people would lose their power supply for the same reason.
Suppliers can install a prepayment meter without a household<bb>'s permission.
But only if they meet certain requirements.
These were brought in after an investigation by The Times.

It found debt agents acting for British Gas broke into vulnerable people's homes.
About four million households had a prepayment meter in July 2023.
Meters cannot be fitted for: customers over 75, without someone else in the home, or anyone with a terminal illness.
Prepayment meters used to be more expensive than paying by direct debit but the charges are now the same.

Ofgem recommends asking your supplier to add you to the Network Operator Register, if you rely on energy for medical reasons.
Make sure you are claiming relevant benefits and government help.
Pensioners, people on certain disability benefits, and households on means-tested benefits, can get help with energy bills.


