+++
title = 'Teens guilty of killing boy, 16, with zombie knife'
date = 'Thu, 07 Mar 2024 15:12:17 GMT'
description = 'Mikey Roynon, from Bristol, was stabbed during a row at a house party in Bath last year.'
image = 'Teens_guilty_of_killing_boy_16_with_zombie_knife__738086730.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Teens guilty of killing boy, 16, with zombie knife

Mikey Roynon was stabbed in the back of the neck during a row.
One of the 16-year-olds was found guilty of murder, the other two were found guilty.
Mikey<bb>'s family broke down in tears and hugged each other as verdicts were delivered earlier.
Around 50 people were at the party when Mikey, from Kingswood, near Bristol, was stabbed and collapsed.

He died a short time later.
Jury at Bristol Crown Court heard how trouble flared at a 16th birthday party, which was being held at a house in the Weston area of Bath.
Jurors were shown CCTV footage from a bus, which showed the three defendants arriving in Bath for the party after travelling from Wiltshire.
In the footage, what appeared to be sharp objects were shown beneath the defendants<bb>' tops - which the prosecution said showed the boys arrived at the party armed.

The defendants left the scene after Mikey was stabbed and later disposed of their weapons, two of which were recovered by police.
Two of the boys admitted taking knives with them, including the boy who stabbed Mikey.
The third boy was initially treated as a witness until police recovered a knife with both his and Mikey<bb>'s DNA on.
The three defendants chose not to give evidence during the trial but gave written statements.

All three denied murder.
Judge told jurors they needed to put sympathy and emotion out of their minds.
They concluded the boy who stabbed Mikey was guilty of murder and his two friends were guilty of manslaughter.
CNN.

com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.
Visit www.

cnn.
co.
uk/Travel for more images from across the world.
Follow us on Twitter @CnnTravel and @CNNTravel.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-bristol-68444048)
