+++
title = "Gaza aid ship expected to set sail from Cyprus"
date = 'Sat, 09 Mar 2024 16:04:44 GMT'
description = "Carrying desperately needed food, the vessel will hope to use a newly opened shipping route to Gaza."
image = 'Gaza_aid_ship_expected_to_set_sail_from_Cyprus__895977784.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Gaza aid ship expected to set sail from Cyprus

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

The ship is scheduled to depart from Cyprus - the closest EU country to Gaza.
It will tow a barge loaded with items provided by US charity World Central Kitchen.
A quarter of the Strip's population is on the brink of famine and children are starving to death.
The ship will take around two to three days to reach an undisclosed location.

World Central Kitchen says it has been preparing for the aid trip for weeks.
The group has 60 kitchens throughout Gaza, where it will be able to distribute the food.
The maritime corridor was announced by European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen on Friday.
That came a day after President Joe Biden announced that the US plans to build a temporary floating port to Gaza.

Pentagon spokesman said the pier could help to deliver up to 2 million meals every day.
Initial shipments will arrive via Cyprus, where Israeli security inspections will take place.
It is unclear whether, or how, the US<bb>' temporary pier and the EU<bb>#38;s sea corridor will work together.
At least 576,000 people across the Gaza Strip - one quarter of the population - are facing catastrophic levels of food insecurity.

One in six children under the age of two in the north are suffering from acute malnutrition, a senior UN aid official warned last week.
Save the Children welcomed the recent international efforts to provide more aid into Gaza.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-68518918)
