+++
title = "Prince William visits homeless project"
date = 'Tue, 19 Mar 2024 11:42:34 GMT'
description = "The Prince of Wales is in Sheffield for the next phase of his project to improve access to housing."
image = 'Prince_William_visits_homeless_project__1743397126.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Prince William visits homeless project

The Prince of Wales is visiting housing initiatives in Sheffield.
He will be promoting his homelessness project.
It comes as the Sun published a photo of Catherine, Princess of Wales, on a shopping trip with Prince William.
She looked relaxed and smiling in video images from a farm shop in Windsor.

On Monday night, the Sun and other newspapers published a photo of the royal couple shopping near their home in Windsor.
This only added to the mood of febrile uncertainty about her health.
This video, although unconfirmed by Kensington Palace, suggests something much more optimistic and everyday than the wild and outlandish claims being made on social media.
Kensington Palace has not denied the photo is of the couple.

The Sun says the video was taken by a member of the public.
But part of the reluctance of Kensington Palace to confirm what would otherwise be a positive story is the thorny question it raises about privacy.
Prince William and Catherine are acutely aware of this pressure, as they try to hunker down in this strange media storm.
US publications ran paparazzi photos of the princess last month, but the UK press did not publish them.

The difference in running this picture might be the sheer howling volume of interest on social media.
The prince will want the emphasis to be on one of his most important projects - an ambitious five-year scheme to tackle homelessness.
The Homewards initiative is Prince William<bb>#39;s <bb>#34;flagship project.
He takes a close personal interest in how its local partnerships are developing, a royal source says.


