+++
title = "How has cancer changed King Charles's duties?"
date = 'Thu, 28 Mar 2024 09:22:30 GMT'
description = "The King has temporarily stepped back from most public duties after being diagnosed with cancer."
image = 'How_has_cancer_changed_King_Charles_s_duties__3156264548.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland", "cancer", "us", "uk"]
+++

# How has cancer changed King Charles's duties?

Buckingham Palace has not said what type of cancer the 75-year-old has.
The King was recently treated for prostate enlargement.
Palace said a number of the King<bb>'s public engagements would be rearranged or postponed.
It apologised to all those who may be disappointed or inconvenienced.

The King and Queen will both attend an Easter Sunday service at St George<bb>'s Chapel, Windsor Castle.
The Prince and Princess of Wales are not expected to attend, as Catherine continues with her own cancer treatment.
While the King is recovering, the Queen is continuing to attend public engagements.
The King is the UK head of state, but his powers are largely symbolic and ceremonial.

He receives daily dispatches from the government in a red leather box.
If the King was not able to carry out his official duties for a temporary period, two or more members of the Royal Family would be appointed as Counsellors of State.
Royal Assent - when a piece of legislation is passed through Parliament, it must be formally approved by the King in order to become law.
The King also formally dissolves Parliament before a general election.

The last time Royal Assent was refused was in 1708.
State Opening and the King's Speech - the King sets out the government<bb>'s plans in a speech delivered from the throne.
Charles is also head of the Commonwealth, an association of 56 independent countries spanning 2.
5 billion people.

In the first year of his reign, Charles visited a number of countries, including Germany, France and Kenya.
Prince William is the elder son of King Charles and his first wife, the late Princess Diana.
Princess Anne is married to Vice Adm Timothy Laurence.
She has two children with her first husband, Captain Mark Phillips.

The Duke of Edinburgh was the Queen<bb>'s youngest child.
He has two daughters with his former wife, the Duchess of York.
The order of succession sets out which member of the Royal Family takes over as monarch when the existing one dies or abdicates.
First in line - the heir to the throne - is the monarch<bb>'s eldest child.

In February 2022, he paid an undisclosed sum to settle the civil sexual assault case which Ms Guiffre brought against him in the US.
The Royal Family receives an annual payment from the taxpayer, known as the Sovereign Grant.
The amount is based on a proportion of the profits of the Crown Estate.
The Sovereign Grant is worth £86.

3m for 2023-2024, as it was in 2021-2022 and 2022-23.
The King also receives money from a private estate called the Duchy of Lancaster.
It covers more than 18,000 hectares of land, including property in central London.
Worth £654m, it generates about £20m a year in profits.

The King and William receive the profits from the duchies personally, and can spend the money as they wish.
Charles became King  on the death of his mother, Queen Elizabeth II, on 8 September 2022.
On 6 May 2023, Charles and his wife Camilla were crowned by the Archbishop of Canterbury in front of more than 2,000 guests.
Some Royal Family members have private art, jewellery and stamp collections.

The King and Queen split their time between Clarence House in London and Highgrove in Gloucestershire.
Their official residence, Buckingham Palace, is undergoing a 10-year £369m refurbishment.
Other royal residences include Windsor Castle, Sandringham, and Balmoral Castle, in Aberdeenshire.
A YouGov opinion poll of more than 2,000 adults in Britain suggests a sharp generational divide.

While 80% of the over-65s supported the monarchy, only 37% of 18 to 24-year-olds agreed.
There was also less support for the royals in Scotland or Wales than in England, where London had higher levels of people against the monarchy.


