+++
title = "'If a dog kills someone, it should be manslaughter'"
date = 'Wed, 13 Mar 2024 06:22:19 GMT'
description = "The family of Frankie Macritchie who was killed in an attack say there should be tougher penalties."
image = 'If_a_dog_kills_someone_it_should_be_manslaughter__3955072294.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# 'If a dog kills someone, it should be manslaughter'

Police forces recorded 30,539 offences of a dog injuring a person or guide dog in 2023 - up from 25,291 in 2022.
Defra spokesperson said it encouraged responsible ownership to address control issues before they escalated.
Pauline Elford's nine-year-old grandson died after being left alone with an American bull terrier cross.
Frankie's mother Tawnee Willis was sentenced to two years in prison for cruelty to a person under 16 years.

Sadie Totterdell was jailed for three years for owning a dog which caused injury while dangerously out-of-control.
Mrs Elford, 57, from Plymouth, is calling for tougher penalties.
Since 1 February 2024, it has been a criminal offence to own an unregistered XL bully dog.
The maximum sentence for manslaughter is life imprisonment.

Environment Secretary Steve Barclay described the ban as an <bb>#34;important measure to protect public safety.
James McNally, solicitor and partner at Blackwell Slee, said attacks were often dismissed as a civil matter.
A National Police Chiefs Council spokesperson said there were officers in all regions focusing on dangerous dogs and dog attacks.
They said the NPCC<bb>#39;s Dangerous Dogs Working Group had worked to tackle dog attacks, resulting in an increase in the number of people reporting incidents.

The BBC sent Freedom of Information requests to every local police force in England and Wales.
Police forces recorded 30,539 offences of an out-of-control dog causing injury to a person or guide dog in 2023 - a 21% increase from the 25,291 recorded in 2022.
The People<bb>#39;s Dispensary for Sick Animals estimates there were 11 million dogs in the UK in 20 23, up 8% on the previous year.
In 2020, Romily - not her real name - was walking her son<bb>#39;s dog when a German Shepherd started chasing it and circling her husband.

She said the dog went back up the road, but returned and mauled her.
A force spokesperson said: <bb>#34;There are a number of factors which may contribute to this.
Dr Samantha Gaines from the RSPCA said since the pandemic, some dogs were more likely to have behaviour problems that could increase aggression.
Dr Gaines warned it was <bb>#34;difficult to highlight any one particular driving force.

Without a comprehensive system looking at behaviour and other factors involved in serious bite incidents.
Dog behaviour expert Hannah Molloy agreed the pandemic was a factor and told the BBC some new owners had struggled to train their dogs.
She said the government should set up a licensing agency, with all dogs being microchipped and the fee for licences used to fund enforcement.
Defra said it continued to work with police, local authorities and animal welfare groups to encourage responsible dog ownership.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-68503779)
