+++
title = 'Biden faces high-stakes address to calm Democrat nerves'
date = 'Thu, 07 Mar 2024 15:37:41 GMT'
description = 'The president will seek to fight concerns over his age and contrast his term in office with Donald Trumps.'
image = 'Biden_faces_high_stakes_address_to_calm_Democrat_nerves__1486599778.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "gaza", "ukraine", "finance", "israel"]
+++

# Biden faces high-stakes address to calm Democrat nerves

The State of the Union address will give him a rare opportunity to speak to a national audience of millions.
The 81-year-old seeks to tackle concerns about his age, put a positive gloss on his first-term record and lay out the case for his re-election in November.
Mr Biden's approval ratings are some of the lowest recorded for a president seeking re-election.
Americans across the political spectrum feel discomfort about giving him another four-years as the commander-in-chief.

He needs to show that he<bb>'s vigorous and in command and a happy warrior.
Questions about the president<bb>'s age have been simmering for months.
They were supercharged by special counsel Robert Hur's investigation of Mr Biden's handling of classified documents.
But this turn on the national stage could prove crucial, as the president must appear competent and comfortable.

The president has suffered from a stutter since boyhood.
He must be aware of how he looks and acts during Thursday night's address.
The president would benefit from landing a few notable moments that make him seem nimble and quick-witted, even if such moments are gamed out well in advance.
Mr Biden has a substantive record of legislative accomplishment in his first three years in office.

Covid aid, gun-control legislation, infrastructure and technology investment and a raft of policies aimed at tackling climate change top the list.
If he can get up there and seem feisty and not completely tied to his text, then it<bb>'s an opportunity to convince the American people that the narrative about his age.
Biden must convince Americans that the US economy is better off than most think.
He will have to account for inflation that has ravaged American household finances.

The surge in undocumented migrants at the US-Mexico border has become an area of glaring weakness for his campaign.
It remains a powerful criticism of his time in office, and fuels most voters<bb>' perception of the economy.
Biden's re-election bid will be a test of his ability to win the White House.
He will have to show that he can deliver on his promise to the American people.

The White House is under pressure from both parties to deliver on its promises to voters.
The president has been criticised for his handling of immigration.
Biden could draw contrasts on areas of perceived strength, such as abortion rights, gun control and expanded healthcare.
His campaign has also hinted that <bb>"preserving democracy<bb>"" will serve as a core theme of his address.

Mr Biden assured voters when he campaigned for president in 2020 that his foreign policy experience would bring stability to the world stage.
Presidential campaign has been dominated by Ukraine and Gaza.
Both conflicts are on the verge of spinning out of Biden's control.
Republicans in the House of Representatives have blocked a vote for tens of billions of dollars in additional Ukraine military support for months now.

Mr Biden is expected to make a major announcement on Ukraine on Monday.
Biden may use his speech to try and argue that he managed to take a bad global situation and kept it from getting much worse.
Meanwhile, Mr Biden<bb>'s Democratic coalition has been fractured by his vocal support for Israel and its military campaign.
To avoid these issues becoming a political liability over the coming months Mr Biden may use these issues as a rallying cry.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-68498032)
