+++
title = "Campaigning dad of Damilola Taylor dies"
date = 'Sat, 23 Mar 2024 15:31:58 GMT'
description = "Richard Taylor dedicated years to improving children's lives in the wake of his son's death in 2000."
image = 'Campaigning_dad_of_Damilola_Taylor_dies__3362547420.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Politics'
tags = ['BBC', "cancer", "us"]
+++

# Campaigning dad of Damilola Taylor dies

The former Nigerian civil servant dedicated years to improving the lives of disadvantaged children in the wake of his son's death.
He set up the Damilola Taylor Trust to campaign against knife crime.
Mr Taylor died on Saturday aged 75 with prostate cancer.
He was 10 when he was stabbed in the leg and left to die in a south London stairwell in 2000.

Damilola was left bleeding to death in a stairwell in Peckham, south-east London.
He was attacked and slashed with a broken bottle on his way home from a library.
Richard Taylor and his late wife Gloria were spurred on to set up a charity in their son<bb>#39;s memory following his death.
He campaigned about the effects of knife crime and spoke at schools about the devastation, loss, and pain he and his family had endured.

He had met royalty, prime ministers, home secretaries, and police leaders to bring about change.
The family was supported by several celebrities, including footballer Rio Ferdinand, who grew up in Peckham.
Despite their ages, neither were awarded anonymity orders unlike other child killers.
The brothers were sentenced to serve eight years in youth custody.

Ricky Preddie and Danny Preddie were given early release in 2010 and 2011.
The Damilola Taylor Trust runs a number of outreach programmes.
Mr Taylor supported a march against knife crime in central London in 2008.
Former EastEnders actress Brooke Kinsella, whose 16-year-old brother Ben was stabbed to death in Islington, said Mr Taylor's courage had been an inspiration.

Labour Brent Central MP Dawn Butler said her <bb>#34;deepest condolences goes out to the family of Richard Taylor.
Labour MP for Vauxhall Florence Eshalomi pays tribute to Richard Taylor.
She says he was a strong man who held the legacy and light for the Damilola Taylor trust.
He is now at peace with his beloved son and wife," she says.


