+++
title = "Parents killed baby when he should have been protected, report says"
date = 'Wed, 27 Mar 2024 12:32:21 GMT'
description = "A review over the killing of 10-month-old Finley Boden finds significant shortcomings."
image = 'Parents_killed_baby_when_he_should_have_been_protected_report_says__1607975475.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "drug", "us", "murder"]
+++

# Parents killed baby when he should have been protected, report says

Finley Boden was murdered by his parents 39 days after being placed back into their care.
Review found numerous missed opportunities, which may have prevented his death.
Local child safeguarding practice review details key findings and makes a number of recommendations for future improvements.
Stephen Boden and Shannon Marsden were jailed for murdering Finley.

Boden and Marsden were known drug users and Boden had already served time in prison for violent and threatening behaviour.
Report added the lead social worker in the case was absent from work for six weeks due to illness, during which no social visits to Finley or his parents took place.
In the four weeks before Finley's death, six children<bb>'s social care visits should have taken place but only four were attempted.
On one of those four visits there was no response from the family, but issues arose that warranted further enquiry, but necessary actions were not taken.

Derbyshire County Council accepted there had been <bb>"missed opportunities<bb>"" in Finley<bb>'s case.
The council accepted the recommendations of the review in full.
It said it was committed to taking all action necessary to reduce the risk of something similar happening again.
Cafcass, the independent Children and Families Court Advisory Service, said: <bb>"What led to his death was the ability of Finley<bb>'s parents to deceive everyone involved, about their love for him and their desire to care for him.

We know there were missed opportunities for stronger practice and we apologise for that.
Finley suffered 57 breaks to his bones at the hands of Boden and Marsden.
He also suffered 71 bruises and two burns on his left hand.
Paramedics were called to the couple<bb>'s home in Holland Road, Old Whittington.

He was taken to hospital and was later pronounced dead.
Boden and Marsden were ordered to serve a minimum of 29 and 27 years respectively.
The judge said the murder was <bb>"savage and prolonged.


