+++
title = "Bill Nighy on playing an England manager with a difference"
date = 'Thu, 28 Mar 2024 02:08:25 GMT'
description = "Nighy's new film The Beautiful Game sees a group of men represent England at the Homeless World Cup."
image = 'Bill_Nighy_on_playing_an_England_manager_with_a_difference__40095648.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Sports'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland", "uk"]
+++

# Bill Nighy on playing an England manager with a difference

Nighy is playing a football coach who takes an England squad to an international tournament.
The tournament is the Homeless World Cup.
Nighy says one of the best things about being part of the film was meeting the extras who had participated in real tournaments and are now no longer homeless.
Nighy stars in The Beautiful Game, a film about the Homeless World Cup.

The film strips football back to its basics - removing the fame, money and power.
Nighy admits he's not sure whether football has that power.
But he says it does bring people from all of the world together.
Juma is now on the hunt for eight men who will represent England at the forthcoming Homeless World Cup in September.

One player that has caught his eye is 35-year-old Courtney, who has had his share of ups and downs.
Juma: "I like helping people and making those that had similar experiences to me feel comfortable" Courtney says it would be a dream to represent England.
Micheal Ward plays Vinny, a star player who is living in his car.
Ward himself experienced homelessness growing up.

He found a new perspective on homelessness after spending time with the film<bb>'s extras, who were former participants in the Homeless World Cup.
Raph Aziz is a former Homeless World Cup player who represented England at the 2018 tournament in Mexico.
The 32-year-old came to the UK 12 years ago and experienced homelessness and prison time before finding accommodation at a Salvation Army hostel for four years.
He says he wants people to take away the idea that you shouldn<bb>'t judge a book by its cover.

The Homeless World Cup was founded by Mel Young, who also set up the Big Issue Scotland.
Aziz chose to train as a charity worker for the organisation that helped support him when he first arrived.
He says the power of sport to create a community should not be underestimated.


