+++
title = "What it's like styling Zendaya for a red carpet"
date = 'Sun, 17 Mar 2024 02:47:30 GMT'
description = "Torishéju Dumi's making waves after dressing Zendaya on the red carpet and Naomi Campbell on the runway."
image = 'What_it_s_like_styling_Zendaya_for_a_red_carpet__1318477897.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# What it's like styling Zendaya for a red carpet

Torishéju Dumi is a London-based designer.
She made her debut at Paris Fashion Week last year.
In January she was on the cover of British Vogue.
A month later Zendaya wore one of her looks on the Dune: Part Two red carpet.

Torishéju designed the outfit for Zendaya at the Euphoria premiere in Mexico City.
The look was in line with the actress<bb>#39; other warrior-themed outfits, with draped fabrics and an extreme skirt split.
She says she had in mind this essence, this being, that was a warrior.
Torishéju has Nigerian and Brazilian heritage and says it<bb>#39;s important for her that she celebrates black communities.

She is excited that another woman of colour, Chioma Nnadi, has been announced as Edward Enninful<bb>#34;s replacement as the editor of British Vogue.
British Vogue has been an important part of Torishéju<bb>#39;s career so far.
In January, she became an unsuspecting cover star when the magazine chose to highlight her work on sustainability.
She was featured alongside fellow designers Tolu Coker and Priya Ahluwalia.

Torishéju says sustainability is a key part of her work.
All of the fabrics she uses are off-cuts - including what she styled Zendaya in.
She says she can<bb>#39;t give much away yet about what her next project is.
She hopes to inspire women and women of colour that anything is possible.


