+++
title = "VisitScotland to close all information centres"
date = 'Wed, 27 Mar 2024 12:09:40 GMT'
description = "The organisation says it will shut 25 iCentres across the country as it shifts to a new digital strategy."
image = 'VisitScotland_to_close_all_information_centres__2780004732.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Technology'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland", "economy", "us", "uk"]
+++

# VisitScotland to close all information centres


VisitScotland will close its 25 information centres over the next two years.
The iCentres will operate as usual until the end of September.
The move follows the closure of 39 tourist offices between 2017 and 2019.
There will be no compulsory redundancies as a result of the shift to a digital first strategy.

The iCentres currently operate during office hours and offer booklets and leaflets promoting specific locations, landmarks and attractions.  Lord Thurso said: <bb>"Our research shows that as an organisation, we have a greater and more impactful role to play in providing information before visitors travel.
VisitScotland said the new approach would help to deliver its core purpose to drive the visitor economy.
The decision also recognised the shift from in-person and print media to sources including social media and influencer marketing.

UK Minister for Scotland John Lamont said the closures would be a <bb>"blow to our towns.  Louise MacLean, of the Scottish Hospitality Group, described tourism as the country<bb>'s <bb>"golden goose.  She expressed concern that the loss of iCentres would cut off those who were not digital savvy.


