+++
title = "Badenoch dismisses speculation about ousting Sunak"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 11:55:47 GMT'
description = "The small minority of Tory MPs talking about replacing the PM should stop it, business secretary says."
image = 'Badenoch_dismisses_speculation_about_ousting_Sunak__3319495218.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "business"]
+++

# Badenoch dismisses speculation about ousting Sunak

Business Secretary Kemi Badenoch says some MPs are speculating about ousting Rishi Sunak as prime minister.
But she says this is only a small minority of MPs.
It comes after a difficult week for the PM, with former Tory deputy chairman Lee Anderson defecting to Reform UK.
Currently only two Tory MPs have publicly called for Mr Sunak to resign.

Sir Simon Clarke and Dame Andrea Jenkyns are among those calling for him to quit.
The PM insists his party is united in wanting to deliver a brighter future for the country.
He said: <bb>#34;I<bb>#39;m not interested in Westminster politics, it doesn't matter.
What matters is the future of our country' Ms Mordaunt previously stood to be party leader in both contests in 2022.

She played a key role in the King<bb>#39;s Coronation, holding a ceremonial sword for more than an hour.
Downing Street issued a statement from Mr Sunak on Sunday night vowing that 2024 <bb>#34;will be the year Britain bounces back.
From 1 April, the government will pay the full cost of apprenticeships for people aged 21 or under at small firms.
Mr Sunak also set out a series of reforms to create up to 20,000 more apprenticeships and cut red tape for small businesses at a conference in Warwickshire.

PM came under pressure over his response to comments allegedly made by Tory donor Frank Hester about Diane Abbott.
Mr Hester, who has donated at least £10m to the party, reportedly said the MP made him want to <bb>#34;hate all black women.
The businessman apologised for making the comments but said his words had nothing to do with her gender nor colour of skin.
She added that the row was <bb>#34;a distraction<bb>#34: and <bb># 34;nowhere near the priorities of any of my constituents.

I think when people apologise, we need to accept that and move on, she said.


