+++
title = "Joy as Campbell's Bluebird returns to Coniston"
date = 'Sat, 09 Mar 2024 19:25:32 GMT'
description = "The restored record-breaking craft was transported to the Lake District after an ownership row."
image = 'Joy_as_Campbell_s_Bluebird_returns_to_Coniston__4179821722.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Joy as Campbell's Bluebird returns to Coniston

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Donald Campbell was killed when his Bluebird hydroplane crashed in 1967.
The wreckage was recovered in 2001 and rebuilt by Tyneside engineer Bill Smith.
Following a legal battle, it was handed to Coniston<bb>'s Ruskin Museum.
The machine was collected from North Shields on Saturday and welcomed with claps and cheers when it reached Coniston.

Once back in the Lake District, it will be the centrepiece of the museum<bb>'s Bluebird wing.
Mr Smith said: <bb>"I always described this as a diving job that got out of hand.
It will mean my mission accomplished, for the moment.
Donald Campbell set seven water-speed world records, including four on Coniston Water.

He became the only man to set fastest times on water and land in the same year in 1964.
He was killed when Bluebird somersaulted on 4 January 1967.
Mr Campbell's body was recovered on 28 May 2001.
Mr Smith has accused the museum of being <bb>"spiteful<bb>#34.

Miss Campbell said she had sympathy for BBP volunteers.
But she said that Bluebird was coming home and there were no winners in this.
She said she was not going to gloat in any way, shape or form.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-68489654)
