+++
title = "Can my landlord put up my rent, keep my deposit or evict me?"
date = 'Mon, 25 Mar 2024 12:07:55 GMT'
description = "UK renters have seen increases of 10% and two million are behind or struggling to pay."
image = 'Can_my_landlord_put_up_my_rent_keep_my_deposit_or_evict_me__2359530114.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland", "us", "uk"]
+++

# Can my landlord put up my rent, keep my deposit or evict me?

The average cost of renting in the UK rose by 9% in the year to February.
It is the highest annual increase since records began in 2015.
Most tenants in England and Wales have an assured shorthold tenancy.
About one in five households have a guaranteed tenancy in England.

Renting rules are different in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
In England, landlords can only increase your rent by what the government calls a fair and realistic amount.
Most landlords ask for a deposit before you move in, says ONS.
If you are on a rolling agreement, the landlord usually only put up the rent once a year.

Landlords must put your deposit in a government approved tenancy deposit scheme (TDP) This is to ensure you get your deposit back if you meet the terms of your tenancy agreement.
There are different TDP schemes in England, Wales and Scotland.
If there is a dispute over the amount, the TDP offers a resolution service.
There are two types of eviction notice in England.

Landlords must provide a reason for wanting a tenant to leave.
If not, the eviction could be illegal, or the landlord could be guilty of harassment.
New laws have been proposed to ban no fault evictions, but not yet approved by Parliament.
In England, the landlord must give you at least 24 hours<bb>' notice to enter.

They must visit at a reasonable time of day, unless it<bb>"s an emergency.
Tenants in England have the right to live in a property that is safe and in a good state of repair.
There are no laws that explicitly stop landlords from refusing to rent to people with children.
But since women are more likely to live with children, any such refusal in England, Wales and Scotland is likely to be indirect discrimination.

Shelter has a guide on how to challenge a ban on children.
The Renters (Reform) Bill is also looking to give tenants a legal right to request to keep a well-behaved pet.
If passed, the lord can only refuse on reasonable grounds - such as the size of the property.
However, landlords will be able to charge a higher rent to cover the risk of pet damage.


