+++
title = "Kate rumours linked to Russian disinformation"
date = 'Tue, 26 Mar 2024 15:12:57 GMT'
description = "Researchers say a co-ordinated campaign deliberately heightened rumours about the Princess of Wales."
image = 'Kate_rumours_linked_to_Russian_disinformation__1087530232.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Technology'
tags = ['BBC', "ukraine", "russia", "business", "eu"]
+++

# Kate rumours linked to Russian disinformation

Security researchers believe a Russia-based disinformation group amplified and added to the frenzy of social media conspiracies about the Princess of Wales' health.
The accounts involved were also spreading content opposing France<bb>'s backing for Ukraine, suggesting a wider international context for the royal rumours.  Royal hashtags were shared billions of times across a range of social media platforms.  The BBC had previously tracked down amateur sleuths and real social media users who started and drove speculation and conspiracy theories.

But Martin Innes has identified a Russian disinformation group involved in this.  Researchers found systematic attempts to further intensify the wave of rumours about the princess.  It's not a state entity, but it is linked to people who have been sanctioned recently in the United States over claims they were part of a fake news campaign.
Their approach is to fan the online flames of an existing story - tapping into disputes and doubts that already exist.

Prof Innes says they would be seen in Russia as political technologists.  Many of the accounts spreading the Catherine conspiracy theories were newly created this month, says Prof Innes.  TikTok says it took down more than 180 million fake accounts in just three months.
Dr Jon Roozenbeek, an expert in disinformation at King<bb>'s College London, says such Russian involvement in conspiracy theories is opportunistic.

Identical phrases - such as <bb>"Why do these big media channels want to make us believe these are Kate and William?  34;" - were churned out by multiple accounts.  They fed off a so-called 'master' account, which in this case had a name which was a version of 'Master' Other fake accounts replying to and sharing messages and drawing in other users.
The Cardiff researchers highlight an overlap with a Russia-linked fake news website.

There were also new TikTok accounts, created in recent days, that seemed to put out nothing but royal rumours.  UK embassies in Russia and Ukraine both put out fake news warnings last week about claims being circulated that King Charles was dead.  This same group spreading rumours against Catherine had also been part of destabilising online campaigns in France, says Prof Innes.
Are their tactics the same?

Does getting involved in this social media conversation align with their interests?
For instance, one clue was a Russia-sourced video which frequently appeared in the social media exchanges over Kate.
France<bb>'s state agency for tackling disinformation, Viginum, has warned of extensive networks of fake news being pumped out by Russia-linked websites and social media accounts.
President Macron, who is seen as taking an increasingly tough line over Ukraine, has faced a blizzard of hostile personal rumours.

Anna George, who researches extremism and conspiracy theories at the Oxford Internet Institute, says a characteristic of Russian disinformation is not to necessarily care what narrative is being sent out.
The royal rumours spread with an unusual speed, says Ms George, getting into the mainstream more quickly than most conspiracy theories.
Prof Innes says engines of disinformation can also be a business proposition.
Last week users on X were being actively recommended content by the site<bb>'s algorithms falsely suggesting a video of the Princess of Wales out shopping was really a body double.

CEO Linda Yaccarino has since said: <bb>"Her request for privacy, to protect her children and allow her to move forward seems like a reasonable request to respect.


