+++
title = "Councils told to consider residents' views on LTNs"
date = 'Sun, 17 Mar 2024 09:32:42 GMT'
description = "Councils in England will have to carry out leaflet drops and run surveys under new government guidance."
image = 'Councils_told_to_consider_residents_views_on_LTNs__1838285362.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Politics'
tags = ['BBC', "business"]
+++

# Councils told to consider residents' views on LTNs

Councils will have to consider local residents' views before introducing new low traffic neighbourhoods (LTNs)LTNs restrict vehicles from using some roads while prioritising other users such as cyclists and pedestrians.
Labour accused ministers of trying todictate to local communities how they use their streets.
draft statutory guidance is due to come into force this summer.
Local authorities issue an average of 36,459 Penalty Charge Notices per scheme.

One scheme exceeding 170,000 fines.
Only 13% of residents have responded to council planning consultations on LTNs.
18% feel their views have influenced council decisions.
Transport Secretary Mark Harper said proposals would be welcomed.

Transport Secretary Mark Harper said it showed the government was on the side of drivers.
There are examples during the pandemic when there was no consultation.
Things were driven through for ideological reasons, he said on the BBC<bb>#39;s Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg programme.
Councils already consult with all residents and businesses to find the best solutions to ease congestion and improve air quality for everyone.

Labour's Louise Haigh MP said the publication of the guidance was a blatant and desperate attempt to distract people from a government that has run out of road.
The Local Government Association said: <bb>#34;Low traffic neighbourhoods are popular as they reduce traffic, making neighbourhoods safer by encouraging more people to walk, wheel or cycle.
The measures are part of the government<bb>#39;s Plan for Drivers.
34;All this ongoing Conservative chaos has a real cost for working people and our public services,’ she said.

Labour would act on the real priorities of drivers by tackling soaring car insurance costs and traffic clogging up our roads.


