+++
title = "Sunak's mother-in-law to sit in India's parliament"
date = 'Fri, 08 Mar 2024 18:46:07 GMT'
description = "Sudha Murthy says it was a pleasant surprise to be appointed to the upper house for a six-year term."
image = 'Sunak_s_mother_in_law_to_sit_in_India_s_parliament__54590507.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Politics'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Sunak's mother-in-law to sit in India's parliament

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Sudha Murthy, 73, is married to NR Narayana Murthy - the billionaire co-founder of global tech giant Infosys.
She married UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, who has been prime minister since 2022, in 2009.
Most members of India<bb>'s upper house are elected but 12, usually high achievers, are nominated.
Narayana Murthy once said that he borrowed $250 from his wife to start the firm.

The firm is now India<bb>'s seventh-largest and the first Indian company to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Ms Murthy's husband has an estimated net worth of $4.
7bn (£3.
6bn) Akshata Murthy holds shares in Infosys and together with Mr Sunak appeared in the Sunday Times<bb>' 2022 Rich List with an estimated combined wealth of £730m ($937m) She said she would pay UK taxes on her overseas income, following a row over her non-domicile (non-dom) status.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-68511113)
