+++
title = "What we know about Meghan's regal lifestyle brand"
date = 'Sat, 16 Mar 2024 02:57:17 GMT'
description = "American Riviera Orchard has already amassed hundreds of thousands of online followers."
image = 'What_we_know_about_Meghan_s_regal_lifestyle_brand__1744255937.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# What we know about Meghan's regal lifestyle brand

Duchess of Sussex unveils new lifestyle brand American Riviera Orchard.
16-second long video shows Meghan stirring a pot in her Californian kitchen.
Instagram account for Meghan<bb>#39;s new brand has already amassed hundreds of thousands of online followers.
The branding for the brand features a gold-coloured crest.

American Riviera Orchards plans to sell cookbooks and home goods such as decanters and kitchen linens, as well as foods including marmalade and jellies.
Some have been speculating on whether the placement of certain items in the teaser video will also form part of her new line in the months to come.
Prof Pauline Maclaran, a marketing and consumer research professor at Royal Holloway, University of London, says the duchess appears to be tapping back into her former brand The Tig.
It has led to a flood of Google searches from people wondering what she<bb>#39;s up to now.

Meghan appears to be marketing a <bb>#34;feeling of domestic bliss, leaning into her role as a wife and mother.
Prof Maclaran says that the promo appears to have been directly pitching to US buyers.
Meghan is better known as a former Hollywood actress than a lifestyle influencer.
When it ended, Meghan had over 3 million Instagram followers.

Mrs Kelly says she wouldn<bb>#39;t be surprised to see Meghan's company include a children's clothing line or a nursery collection.
Her husband might also later appear in marketing materials, something consumers would probably expect of a lifestyle brand.
Some have joked that the 10-syllable American Riviera Orchard sounds like the names of children born to Hollywood celebrities.
The launch came just a few days after her sister-in-law Catherine, the Princess of Wales, had to address a photoshopping mishap in the UK.

Both have been guarded recently about sharing information from their daily lives.
The launch has prompted some public speculation that the lifestyle brand could be in breach of an agreement with the Royal Family to not use their royal titles.
Buckingham Palace could theoretically complain if Meghan<bb>#39;s products are seen to be in competition with those they sell through their own Royal Collection website.
When they left their role as working royals, they were instructed to uphold the values of the Royal Family.

It is far too early to say whether any clash may occur.


