+++
title = "Divers recover bodies from Baltimore bridge"
date = 'Thu, 28 Mar 2024 10:06:03 GMT'
description = "Searches continue for four other people missing after two bodies are found in a submerged truck."
image = 'Divers_recover_bodies_from_Baltimore_bridge__2999635000.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC', "oil", "economy", "us"]
+++

# Divers recover bodies from Baltimore bridge

Eight construction workers were on the bridge when a ship struck it, plunging them into the waters below.
Two of the workers were rescued on the day, but the search continues for the other four - all presumed dead.
Police identified Alejandro Hernandez Fuentes, 35, and Dorlian Ronial Castillo Cabrera, 26, as the two workers recovered by divers from inside the truck.
Two other missing victims, who are presumed dead, have also been named.

Miguel Luna, originally from El Salvador, and Maynor Suazo Sandoval, a Honduran citizen, are among the dead.
First responders spent hours on Tuesday searching the waters of the Patapsco River for six construction workers.
The US Coast Guard called off the search around sunset.
Officials have pledged to find the bodies of the men for their relatives.

The cargo vessel itself is stable but has more than 1.
5 million gallons of fuel oil and lube oil on board.
About 4,700 cargo containers were also on board, including 56 with hazardous materials.
The US Navy plans to use barges with heavy lift cranes to remove parts of the bridge that fell in the water.

A total of 764 tonnes of mostly corrosive and flammable materials were identified.
The Dali was headed toward Sri Lanka when it lost power all of a sudden and issued a distress call.
Officials say the bridge collapse could pose a risk to global supply chains and the US economy.
80bn (£63.

4bn) of cargo moved through the port last year.
Mr Moore said that 8,000 jobs could be affected by the collapse.
The national economy and global economy depends on the port, he said.
Experts say Key Bridge could lead to losses of up to $15m a day until the shipping lane is reopened.

Officials are working to come up with a design for the replacement of that bridge as quickly as possible to get the port back up and running.
The cause of the collapse is still under investigation.
Investigators are also hoping to determine whether dirty fuel played a role in the deadly crash.
Maritime experts say contaminated fuel can cause a ship to black out as it creates problems with a vessel<bb>'s main power generators.

US Senator Ben Cardin of Maryland said he was confident the state would get the necessary resources to recover.


