+++
title = "How much trouble is Boeing in?"
date = 'Sun, 17 Mar 2024 02:11:20 GMT'
description = "The US plane giant is under pressure from regulators and airlines, and its reputation is badly damaged."
image = 'How_much_trouble_is_Boeing_in__593102763.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "scandal"]
+++

# How much trouble is Boeing in?

The head of the Allied Pilots Association, the pilots union for American Airlines, insists he would never board an aircraft if it were not safe.
Captain Dennis Tajer describes flying a Boeing 737 Max.
34;It<bb>#39;s as if I<bb>#38;m watching a troubled child, says Tajer.
Every day brings more bad headlines for the aerospace giant.

A disused emergency exit door blew off a new Boeing 737 Max in January.
No-one was seriously hurt, but the incident had wider repercussions.
Boeing is reportedly facing a criminal investigation into the incident itself, as well as legal action from passengers.
Five years ago Boeing faced one of the biggest scandals in its history.

Two brand new 737 Max planes were lost in almost identical accidents that cost 346 lives.
The cause was flawed flight control software, details of which it was accused of deliberately concealing from regulators.
The company agreed to pay $2.
5bn (£1.

8bn) to settle fraud charges and admitted deception.
Boeing's safety record in spotlight again after mid-air blowout in January.
Federal Aviation Administration said 737 Max production process failed to comply with quality control requirements.
Report into Boeing<bb>#39;s safety culture by an expert panel found a disconnect between senior management and regular staff.

FAA warns that improperly installed wiring bundles on 737 Max planes could become damaged, leading to controls on the wings deploying unexpectedly.
Hundreds of planes already in service will have to be checked as a result.
But the fundamental issue of distrust makes those changes almost ineffective, he claims.
Whistleblower John Barnett had worked at Boeing<bb>#39;s factory in South Carolina from 2010 until his retirement in 2017.

He had claimed the rush to build planes as quickly as possible in order to maximise profits had led to unsafe practices.
Boeing said based on the FAA audit it was continuing to implement immediate changes.
Airbus and Boeing have a backlog of more than 8,000 planes.
Some airlines may have to wait longer to get their hands on new planes.

The delays could push up prices for airline passengers in the short term.
The US government is also concerned about the impact of delays on the economy.
The market needs Boeing to be healthy, and to overcome its current problems quickly.
According to Ed Pierson, executive director at the Foundation for Aviation Safety, the issues involved are complex, but fixable.

The first step in fixing these problems is being honest, he says.
Boeing says it has 'never hesitated to slow down, to halt production, or to stop deliveries to take the time we need to get things right' It has launched a <bb>#34;Speak Up' programme encouraging staff to raise issues that need to be addressed.
The more they spin, the longer it takes to solve the problems.


