+++
title = 'MS faces ban for touching women on night out'
date = 'Wed, 06 Mar 2024 18:28:28 GMT'
description = 'Rhys ab Owen touched and swore at two women while drunk on a night out, an investigation finds.'
image = 'MS_faces_ban_for_touching_women_on_night_out__2967697079.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = 'BBC'
+++

# MS faces ban for touching women on night out

Rhys ab Owen has been banned from the Senedd for six weeks.
He was found to have inappropriately touched and swore at two women.
The 42-day ban will need to be passed by the Senate next week.
It will mean that he will be stripped of his salary.

It is the biggest sanction against a Member of the Senedd that has ever been implemented.
But because of the rules of the Welsh Parliament, and unlike Westminster, Mr ab Owen does not face a recall petition.
Plaid said on Wednesday night that he was now suspended from the party itself.
Rhys ab Owen was said to be more drunk than others present.

Woman who made complaint said he swore at her twice.
Report said he touched her inappropriately by putting his arm around her waist and pulling her body close to his.
He also squeezed her upper thigh with his hand in a taxi.
A Senedd spokesperson said: <bb>"The Standards of Conduct Committee has taken time and a great deal of care to reach its conclusions on this complex and sensitive case.

Decisive action has been taken to implement the recommendations and strengthen the party<bb>'s governance.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-wales-politics-68490882)
