+++
title = "Sweden and Canada resume aid to UN Gaza agency"
date = 'Sat, 09 Mar 2024 15:30:47 GMT'
description = "The decision comes as investigators probe if some UNRWA staff were involved in the 7 October attack."
image = 'Sweden_and_Canada_resume_aid_to_UN_Gaza_agency__1076843846.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Sweden and Canada resume aid to UN Gaza agency

Sweden and Canada will resume aid payments to UNRWA, the UN agency for Palestinian refugees.
They were among 16 countries that paused funds after the 7 October attack by Hamas.
The UN is investigating the attack, and France's foreign minister is leading a review.
The government has allocated 400 million kronor for the year 2024.

UNRWA is the biggest UN agency operating in Gaza.
Decision concerns a first payment of 200 million kronor, it said in a statement.
On 7 October, Hamas gunmen stormed across Gaza<bb>'s border into Israel, killing about 1,200 people and taking more than 250.
Philippe Lazzarini said he was optimistic donors would start funding it again.

It provides healthcare, education and other humanitarian aid, and employs about 13,000 people there.
Major donor countries suspended funding following allegations in late January that a number of staff members were involved in the 7 October attack.
The European Commission said earlier this month that it would release 50 million euros in UNRWA funding.
What is at stake is the fate of the Palestinians today in Gaza in the short term who are going through an absolutely unprecedented humanitarian crisis,<bb>"" Mr Lazzarini said.

The Canadian Armed Forces will also donate about 300 cargo parachutes to Jordan, so they can be used to airdrop supplies into Gaza.
EU, UK, US and others said they planned to  open a sea route to Gaza to deliver aid that could begin operating this weekend.
Internal draft document compiled by UNRWA and seen by the BBC has detailed widespread abuse of Palestinians.
Former detainees describe an extensive range of ill-treatment.

Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) rejected specific allegations and said: <bb>"The mistreatment of detainees during their time in detention or whilst under interrogation violates IDF values and contravenes IDF and is therefore absolutely prohibited.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-68518468)
