+++
title = "Sainsbury's deliveries cancelled due to tech issues"
date = 'Sat, 16 Mar 2024 12:30:26 GMT'
description = "The supermarket has apologised and says the problem is also impacting contactless payments."
image = 'Sainsbury_s_deliveries_cancelled_due_to_tech_issues__2077656147.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Technology'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Sainsbury's deliveries cancelled due to tech issues

Sainsbury's says it will not be able to fulfil the vast majority of online deliveries on Saturday.
Customers have been contacting the supermarket on social media to report issues with their online orders.
Sainsbury<bb>#39;s apologised, explaining it was caused by an overnight software update.
It said customers can now place new orders to be delivered tomorrow.

BBC News visited three Sainsbury<bb>#39;s Local stores in central London.
In two of the stores, contactless payments were not working.
Customers who normally pay using their phone struggled if they did not have a bank card or cash.
Click <bb>amp; Collect service is also affected by cancellations.

Connor Hassan, 25, was turned away from the branch because he did not have cash.
He said: <bb>#34;I just want to buy food right.
Maybe it<bb>#39;s just my generation but whenever someone only takes cash it feels seedy, like why can<bb>#38;t you take card.
Sainsbury<bb>#39;s is the second biggest supermarket chain in the UK with 600 supermarkets and over 800 convenience stores.

BBC News has asked the supermarket for clarification about the issues with orders and some shops only accepting cash.
Get in touch by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.
co.
uk.

You can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.
co.
uk.
Please include your name, age and location with any submission.

You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet:                 @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or video:    https://www.
facebook.
com/bbchaveYourSay/videos?
v=1<bb>hl=en<bb>tweet=%20BBC%20Have%20Your%20Say%20logo.


