+++
title = "August UK flight chaos made worse by engineer delay"
date = 'Thu, 14 Mar 2024 13:45:10 GMT'
description = "August bank holiday disruption was made worse by engineers' inability to fix the issue from home, a report says."
image = 'August_UK_flight_chaos_made_worse_by_engineer_delay__3128633666.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "business"]
+++

# August UK flight chaos made worse by engineer delay

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

NATS engineers working on site could not fix the issue, so the problem was escalated to on-call engineers higher up the chain.
It took one of the senior engineers an hour and a half to get to the NATS site and try to perform a system restart.
The system was down for close to six-and-three-quarter hours.
The airline said it would only reimburse for one overnight stay.

The airline said that it would not reimburse for more than one night in a hotel.
The incident occurred in the early hours of Sunday morning, the airline said.
The hotel was not immediately available for comment.
For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.

The scale of disruption made providing care and assistance much harder, as so many people were stranded at the same time, on a busy bank holiday.
Airports, restaurants and hotels, and most importantly alternative flights, quickly became full.
There were incidents where.
food vouchers were not accepted or not enough hotel accommodation was offered.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-68563068)
