+++
title = "Public satisfaction with NHS at lowest ever level"
date = 'Wed, 27 Mar 2024 07:15:09 GMT'
description = "Just 24% of Britons say they are satisfied, citing waiting times and lack of staff in a long-running survey."
image = 'Public_satisfaction_with_NHS_at_lowest_ever_level__2965088807.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland", "us", "uk"]
+++

# Public satisfaction with NHS at lowest ever level

Just 24% said they were satisfied with the NHS in 2023, with waiting times and staff shortages the biggest concerns.
That is five percentage points down on last year and a drop from the 2010 high of 70% satisfaction.
More than 3,000 people were polled by the National Centre for Social Research across England, Wales and Scotland.
Of the core services, the public was least satisfied with A<bb>amp;E and dentistry.

satisfaction with social care had fallen to 13% - again the lowest since the survey began.
The major reasons for dissatisfaction were long waiting times, staffing shortages and lack of funding.
Rory Deighton, the NHS Confederation<bb>'s acute network director, said the figures <bb>"reflect exactly how people are feeling.
He said the focus for NHS leaders in the next 12 to 24 months would be on improving GP and dental access, and cutting waiting lists.

Junior doctors in England have staged 10 walkouts since March last year in a row over pay.
The Patients Association said it was ‘dismayed’ by the survey results.
Royal College of Nursing general secretary Prof Pat Cullen said: ‘Enough is enough’ Some signs that the waiting list was falling, while investment was being made in key areas, such as GPs.
The Scottish government said other research showed people in Scotland were more satisfied with the way the NHS was run than this survey suggested.

A Welsh government spokesperson said: <bb>"We recognise performance is not where it should be.
Despite significant budget pressures we continue to increase spending on the NHS.

