+++
title = "Kate cancer diagnosis rewrites story of past weeks"
date = 'Sat, 23 Mar 2024 00:39:57 GMT'
description = "The simple and poignant message from the Princess of Wales is a reminder of how the royals need her."
image = 'Kate_cancer_diagnosis_rewrites_story_of_past_weeks__4179659515.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC', "cancer"]
+++

# Kate cancer diagnosis rewrites story of past weeks

She<bb>#39;s been their dash of glamour in a greying royal world.
The palace will fervently hope that the shift towards a greater openness about her health will be the point at which the speculation about her stops.
The outburst of rumour-mongering has been a bruising time for Catherine and Prince William.
Catherine and Prince William are now not expected to appear with the Royal Family on Easter Sunday.

The palace is calling for privacy and wants to draw a line under the media storm of recent weeks.
With King Charles also undergoing cancer treatment it means there are now very depleted ranks of royals.
Trooping the Colour in June will now be a case of <bb>#34;to be confirmed<bb>#34;" in terms of who will attend.
International trips, such as connecting with the Commonwealth, seem very much on hold.

Prince William has kept up his projects such as Earthshot and Homewards, but is likely to limit his travels.
She gave a sobering message but with a positive expectation of getting well and recovering soon.
As she said in her message, she was thinking of the many families who have been affected by cancer.
Those families will know that finding a loved one has cancer makes you stop and take stock and put other things in perspective.


