+++
title = "The Papers: 'Shapps missile threat' and 'Strictly stars summit'"
date = 'Sun, 17 Mar 2024 05:20:49 GMT'
description = "A range of stories on Sunday's papers including Vaughan Gething set to become Wales' first black leader."
image = 'The_Papers_Shapps_missile_threat_and_Strictly_stars_summit__325260012.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# The Papers: 'Shapps missile threat' and 'Strictly stars summit'

The Sunday Telegraph reports that there is extraordinary infighting within the Conservative Party.
One Tory MP says Rishi Sunak will be <bb>#34;required to go before the next election.
Some on the right of the party are backing Penny Mordaunt as his successor.
But allies of the prime minister tell the paper that the Commons leader is being used by right-wing MPs to bolster support among moderates.

Ms Mordaunt believes it is an attempt by those on the right to damage any potential challenge she may make in the future, after a Tory election defeat.
The potential scale of that projected defeat is set out in the Mail on Sunday.
It says private polling shows the Conservatives are heading for the worst loss in the party<bb>#39;s history.
Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage is set for a return to frontline politics.

Senior Tory tells the paper that would be a game-changer.
Senior members of the shadow cabinet have held informal dinners with top civil servants, the Mail on Sunday reports.
The paper says Labour is stepping up its preparations for government.
Vaughan Gething faces a number of challenges, including a struggling economy, protesting farmers and record high NHS waiting lists.

Sources close to the Princess of Wales say she will be clear and open about her health when she returns to public duties after recent abdominal surgery.
James Purnell, Patricia Hewitt, and the government<bb>#39;s former chief scientific adviser, Sir Patrick Vallance.
Giovanni Pernice has spoken to the Sunday Mirror about Amanda Abbington's exit from the show for the first time.
They say Catherine might also discuss her recovery at public engagements, but only when the Royal Family <bb>#34;feels ready.

It is not known if she will make a full recovery.


