+++
title = "Lenny Henry emotional ahead of his final Comic Relief"
date = 'Fri, 15 Mar 2024 00:37:00 GMT'
description = "The comedian looks ahead to his last appearance as host of Red Nose Day after almost four decades."
image = 'Lenny_Henry_emotional_ahead_of_his_final_Comic_Relief__97947810.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Lenny Henry emotional ahead of his final Comic Relief

Comedian co-founded the charity 39 years ago.
Friday<bb>#39;s Red Nose Day broadcast will be his last as host.
Sir Lenny Henry: "I think it needs new blood, and I<bb>#34;m definitely old blood" He says he is incredibly proud of what the charity has achieved.
Sir Lenny will be joined by Maya Jama, David Tennant and Davina McCall.

A spoof movie adaptation of The Traitors will feature Suranne Jones.
The cast of BBC mockumentary W1A will return in a sketch to attempt to choose Sir Lenny<bb>#39;s replacement.
McFly are doing a medley of all the greatest Comic Relief songs.
Comic Relief has raised more than £1.

5bn over the years.
Money helps to tackle poverty, provide food, healthcare and safe shelter for people in the UK and around the world.
Sir Lenny said: <bb>#34;The money that people have sent in repeatedly, every single time, has helped over 100 million people.
That<bb>#39;s a lot of people, and there aren't many organisations that can say that.

Sir Lenny will remain involved in the future as life president of Comic Relief.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68563449)
