+++
title = "Couple adopted vulnerable children to abuse"
date = 'Fri, 22 Mar 2024 06:26:22 GMT'
description = "A new report says agencies fell short in protecting children abused by one family."
image = 'Couple_adopted_vulnerable_children_to_abuse__889293375.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "us"]
+++

# Couple adopted vulnerable children to abuse

The abuse began with Couple A in Gloucestershire, who specifically asked to adopt an emotionally disturbed child so they could assault them.
The couple, eventually jailed in 2018, went on to adopt four siblings, beginning a cycle of sexual abuse that lasted for years.
Couple A, who cannot be named for legal reasons, adopted the four young siblings, who had been abused by their birth parents, in the 1990s.
Police describe Couple A as wealthy and 'people you wouldn<bb>#39;t suspect' The woman is described as a pillar of the community and a church-goer with a very successful job.

Det Sgt Craddock said the dominating factor over the entire family was the mother of Couple A.
She described the mother as one of the most manipulative people she had ever met.
Couple B were jailed for a total of 17 years in 2023 for abusing two of their own children.
Police said the victims of the family were undergoing therapy and <bb>#34;living with trauma every day.

It<bb>#39;s taken years for them to feel ready to talk about what happened, said Det Sgt Craddock.
The victims have got closure thankfully but those offences have happened to them.
In 2010, Gloucestershire Constabulary did not prosecute Couple A after one of the children said she had been abused.
The CPS was not consulted and no legal advice was taken.

Despite evidence the father had been downloading indecent images of children, for which he was later cautioned.
Despite referrals to children<bb>#39;s services, and concerns also shown from staff in probation, social services and at a children’s centre, Pete and his colleagues felt they were pushed back by the authorities.
I’m not here to try and get a legal outcome I<bb>#38;m here to get these children protected,’ he said.
Eleven children connected to four families were taken into police protection and local authority care.

Two other families had convictions for neglect, but the victims of Couples A and B finally saw their abusers brought to justice and jailed.
Report by Gloucestershire Safeguarding Partnership published on Friday.
Ofsted found 'serious and widespread failures' in children<bb>#39;s services in Gloucestershire.
In June of that year, the same month that Operation Acorne was set up, Ofsted announced it had found that children were being left in situations at risk of significant harm.

Gloucestershire police said it was sorry for the consequences of not taking action earlier.
Assistant Chief Constable Arman Mathieson apologised to those involved.
The case was taken forward with the utmost professionalism in 2017.
It resulted in extensive safeguarding and significant convictions that totalled 40 years.

Police are unable to name the parents for legal reasons and to protect the victims.
They are appealing for anyone with information to come forward and speak to police.
The report has been embedded within the force, says Det Sgt Craddock.


