+++
title = 'Teen girl restrained and stripped by prison staff'
date = 'Tue, 05 Mar 2024 02:05:58 GMT'
description = 'Inspectors were "deeply shocked" by the treatment of a girl at Wetherby Young Offender Institution.'
image = 'Teen_girl_restrained_and_stripped_by_prison_staff__1204826171.png'
keywrods =  []
tags = "BBC" 
categories = "World" 
+++

# Teen girl restrained and stripped by prison staff

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Vulnerable girl had her clothes removed by an all-male team of prison officers.
Wetherby Young Offender Institution is some of the most complex and vulnerable in the country.
Chief inspector of prisons Charlie Taylor found an 'extremely high' level of self-harm at the institution.
The report has prompted calls for reform of youth justice in England and Wales.

Mr Taylor said the jail had made Wetherby more stable and settled.
But he criticised the number of managers - 91 for an institution with 165 inmates.
He said the YOI has no excuse not to have made sure that female officers were in attendance.
A group of men forcibly stripped a distressed young girl, hurting and locking away children in cold cells is not how any child should be treated in a civilised society, says Nacro.

Andrea Coomber, of the Howard League for Penal Reform, said: <bb>"It is virtually impossible to imagine the damage caused to the girl.
A Ministry of Justice spokeswoman said custody should be the last resort for children who commit crime.
She said the number of girls in youth custody had decreased since 2015.
HMYOI Wetherby is providing additional training to staff on self-harm and increasing opportunities for meaningful activity and education.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-68470183)
