+++
title = "Sail-powered cargo ship 'shows potential of wind'"
date = 'Wed, 13 Mar 2024 02:10:55 GMT'
description = "Using sails reduced ship's fuel use and carbon dioxide emissions, company data indicates."
image = 'Sail_powered_cargo_ship_shows_potential_of_wind__290801293.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Science'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Sail-powered cargo ship 'shows potential of wind'

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

The Pyxis Ocean tested the British-designed WindWings for six months.
Made of the same material as wind turbine blades, they are folded down in port then opened out to stand at 123ft (37.
5m) Only a tiny volume of the international shipping fleet is using the technology.
International shipping is estimated to be responsible for 837 million tonnes of CO2 annually - or 2.

1% of total global emissions.
If replicated over a year, it would amount to the equivalent of removing 480 cars from the roads.
Cargill says it is encouraged by the results.
It will take decades to deliver all the new ships needed for the decarbonisation journey.

Shipyards globally are full and lead times for delivery are averaging 3.
5 years.
Other firms are exploring alternative energy-saving technologies, such as flettner rotors - a system of spinning cylinders first conceived 100 years ago.
Dr Simon Bullock from the University of Manchester said it was time for that that to change.

He said the results showed the <bb>#34;major and immediate benefits of wind-assist technologies.
He urged other shipping companies to take note and install them as standard.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-68543677)
