+++
title = "Thousands call for Gaza ceasefire in London march"
date = 'Sat, 09 Mar 2024 18:05:09 GMT'
description = "People have been demonstrating in the 10th pro-Palestinian march in central London in recent months."
image = 'Thousands_call_for_Gaza_ceasefire_in_London_march__1459813718.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "gaza", "israel"]
+++

# Thousands call for Gaza ceasefire in London march

The demonstration was organised by the Palestine Solidarity Campaign.
It made its way from Hyde Park Corner to the US Embassy in Nine Elms.
It was the 10th pro-Palestinian march in central London since Israel started its campaign in Gaza following the 7 October attacks on Israel by Hamas.
A further man was also arrested for assault but was later de-arrested.

The Met said there had been no significant public order disturbance.
The march came after the government's counter-extremism commissioner this week said London had become a no-go zone for Jews.
march organiser Ben Jamal called the no-go zone comments <bb>"disgraceful.
He said: "I don't want the risk that they realise I<bb>'m Jewish and start shouting abuse at me" Police themselves admit these marches are overwhelmingly peaceful, he added.

Church was among an all-female line-up of speakers at the rally.
Former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was also at the march.
He said: "We<bb>'re appalled at the bombing that<bb>"s still going on in Gaza" More than 30,800 people have been killed in Gaza since 7 October.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-68521904)
