+++
title = "Secret classes to counter Russian brainwashing in occupied Ukraine"
date = 'Sat, 16 Mar 2024 00:10:24 GMT'
description = "Forced to move from Melitopol, “Nataliia” now risks teaching hundreds of former students online."
image = 'Secret_classes_to_counter_Russian_brainwashing_in_occupied_Ukraine__1510943520.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "ukraine", "russia"]
+++

# Secret classes to counter Russian brainwashing in occupied Ukraine

Nataliia (not her real name) was forced from her home in Melitopol.
She felt she would be more useful in territory still controlled by Ukraine.
Nataliia didn<bb>#39;t just leave her home and relatives behind, she also surrendered her profession, giving up her job of 20 years as a teacher.
Ukrainian children are educated in territories occupied by Russia.

They are taught that Ukraine isn<bb>#39;t a real country.
If a child challenges the curriculum, their parents are threatened with beatings or torture.
Nataliia created an online teaching platform to try to save the minds of Ukrainian children.
Hundreds of families have taken up Nataliia<bb>#39;s offer to teach the Ukrainian curriculum.

In the morning, they attend Russian school, and in the afternoon or evening, the pupils have secret online lessons with Ukrainian teachers.
All the students join with their cameras off and use false nicknames.
The longer Russia occupies Melitopol, the greater the risk children living there will be indoctrinated.
Valera believes he is going to be made to join the Russian army.

The 14-year-old told us only six out of his 31 classmates support Ukraine.
Nataliia concedes the purpose of her teaching is constantly tested.


