+++
title = "Fresh defeats in the Lords over Rwanda bill"
date = 'Wed, 20 Mar 2024 19:24:29 GMT'
description = "Peers vote for changes to the government's legislation, which will delay it further from becoming law."
image = 'Fresh_defeats_in_the_Lords_over_Rwanda_bill__4206142398.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "africa"]
+++

# Fresh defeats in the Lords over Rwanda bill

MPs will now have to vote on the bill again, delaying the passage of the bill until after Easter.
The legislation aims to revive the government<bb>#39;s plan to send some asylum seekers to Rwanda.
It declares the east African country is safe, after deportation flights were stalled by the Supreme Court.
Labour's proposals on domestic and international law were passed by 271 to 228 votes.

Home Office Minister Lord Sharpe insisted there was nothing in the bill which conflicts with the UK<bb>#39;s international obligations.
Peer Lord Hope proposed that Rwanda only be deemed a safe country once a treaty bringing in new safeguards has been fully implemented.
No 10 officials insist that even if the legislation is not passed until after Easter, their target date can still be met.
MPs voted down 10 amendments to the draft law proposed by peers earlier this month.

They are likely to again reject any further changes put forward in the House of Lords.
Labour has said it would scrap the Rwanda scheme if it wins power.
But a spokesman said any individuals already sent to the country would not be returned to the UK under a Labour government.
34;We remain focused on not letting that happen, and hope their lordships recognise it<bb>#39;s time to let this bill pass so we can continue to stop the boats, and save lives.


