+++
title = "St Patrick’s celebrations to take place across NI"
date = 'Sun, 17 Mar 2024 12:12:38 GMT'
description = "The saint's day is upon us and parades will be happening across Northern Ireland."
image = 'St_Patrick_s_celebrations_to_take_place_across_NI__3318650934.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "Scotland"]
+++

# St Patrick’s celebrations to take place across NI

Thousands gather in towns and cities across Northern Ireland to celebrate St Patrick.
In Belfast the parade got under way at City Hall at 13:30 GMT.
In Downpatrick a pilgrimage walk was led by religious leaders from Saul Church to Down Cathedral, the saint<bb>#39;s burial place.
In Cushendall more than 200 people attended the village<bb>#34;s first St Patrick<bb>#38;s festival.

Police warned of traffic disruption in many areas due to the festivities.
PSNI working with city council, universities and schools to highlight residential areas of south Belfast are not a party or nightlife destination.
County Antrim village had a <bb>#34;hooley at the corner<bb>#34;" in tribute to Ireland<bb>#39;s patron saint, with traditional music and dancing.
The city was expecting about 500,000 spectators at the event.

More than 4,000 people are taking part, including marching bands, performers, dancers and floats.
If you are socialising, drink responsibly, stay with your friends and get home safely, says Supt Gavin Kirkpatrick.
The theme for this year is Spréach, the Irish word for spark.
The Duchess of Edinburgh visited the 2nd Battalion, The Royal Irish Regiment in Lisburn to watch a St Patrick<bb>#39;s Day parade and presentation of shamrock.

Princess Anne attended the Ireland v Scotland rugby match in Dublin, with the UK Ambassador to Ireland, Paul Johnston.
It was part of a three-day event - the Greater Shankill St Patrick<bb>#39;s Day Festival.
The festival is now in its second year.
It has been described as an effort by the unionist community to reclaim this part of its cultural heritage.

St Patrick is thought to have first come to Ireland as a kidnapped slave.
He then became a priest and returned to the country as a missionary.
He is believed to have used the shamrock to explain the Holy Trinity to pagans.
St Patrick<bb>#39;s Day was originally celebrated as a religious feast.

St Patrick's Day is only a national holiday in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Many people around the world get involved in celebrations, even if they have no connection to the country.
An abundance of parades, street parties and céilis (traditional Irish social gatherings involving dancing and music) can also be expected.


