+++
title = "Fertility clinic licence suspended over 'concerns'"
date = 'Fri, 08 Mar 2024 19:05:27 GMT'
description = "Regulators have ordered the centre to halt any new procedures while an investigation continues."
image = 'Fertility_clinic_licence_suspended_over_concerns__4054196780.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Fertility clinic licence suspended over 'concerns'

Homerton Fertility Centre has had its licence to operate suspended.
Fertility regulator said it had ordered the clinic to halt any new procedures.
Clinic said there had been three separate incidents highlighting errors.
This led to the <bb>"tragic loss of a small number of embryos.

The Homerton Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust says it began an investigation late in 2023 and immediately made regulators fully aware of it.
The regulator, the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA), is now doing its own investigation alongside the trust.
The trust has apologised for any distress caused.
Investigators have not been able to find any direct cause of the errors.

Staff now work in pairs to ensure all clinical activities are checked by two healthcare professionals.
The clinic is permitted to continue treatment cycles which have already begun, such as those involving patients already taking medication.
Its chief executive Louise Ashley said the clinic was writing to all its fertility patients.
The Homerton Fertility Centre, in Hackney, east London, provides a range of fertility treatment to NHS and private patients.

It has been licensed since 1995 and does regular inspections.
The HFEA said it was rare for this type of action to be taken and that the clinic had referred itself for investigation.
Rachel has been offered another cycle of IVF treatment by the clinic.
She says it takes a physical and emotional toll on her and her husband.

In April 2022, the clinic had to suspend fertility treatment because of staff shortages.
Have you been affected by any of the issues raised here?
You can get in touch by emailing HaveYourSay@bbc.
co.

uk.
CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Visit CNN.

com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please include your name, age and location for the best views.
We will feature the best photos from across the globe in our next Travel Snapshot gallery.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-68510577)
