+++
title = "Mood among Tory MPs darkens as PM faces questions"
date = 'Mon, 18 Mar 2024 11:25:58 GMT'
description = "If there is to be a crunch leadership moment, most MPs seem to think it would come after the local elections, the BBC's chief political correspondent says."
image = 'Mood_among_Tory_MPs_darkens_as_PM_faces_questions__1445925233.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Politics'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Mood among Tory MPs darkens as PM faces questions

The mood in the Conservative Party is dark, and it has noticeably darkened over the past few days.
Lee Anderson, who had been suspended from the Conservative ranks over comments he made about Sadiq Khan, joined Reform, the insurgent right-wing party.
Then came the reporting of alleged comments made by mega-donor Frank Hester.
Many MPs had thought that the gap with Labour would have narrowed by now.

There<bb>#39;s also frustration that the  Budget earlier this month appeared to do nothing to affect the polls.
One former minister said they had seen the Budget as the <bb>#34;last big needle mover<bb>#34;" The local election campaign trail also appears to be focusing minds on what a general election might look like.
Some were heartened by reports last week that Boris Johnson will campaign for the Conservatives at the election.
For others, this just underscored their frustrations with the current leader.

34;Who do you want coming off the battle bus in your marginal seat, Boris or Rishi?
One MP has been asking their colleagues.
Few Conservatives are giving much credence to the idea that there is an advanced plot, anchored by an alliance of Ms Mordaunt<bb>#39;s supporters and those on the right of the party.
Others think the notion of removing Mr Sunak and installing a fifth Conservative leader in five years is absurd.

The Rwanda bill, designed to put the government<bb>#39;s flagship asylum policy on a stronger legal footing, could be law by the end of this week.
Inflation statistics may show a significant drop on Wednesday, paving the way for a possible interest rates cut.
Early next week MPs break for Easter, meaning they will not be able to plot in person together for at least a few weeks.
I think the party has just about had it,<bb>#34; one senior Conservative figure said.

Yet some wonder if the bleak atmosphere right now is sustainable up to that point.
There<bb>#39;s a realisation that there<bb>#38;s nothing good left.


