+++
title = "More than a fifth of adults not looking for work"
date = 'Tue, 12 Mar 2024 12:25:16 GMT'
description = "The UK's economic inactivity rate was 21.8% from November to January, official figures show."
image = 'More_than_a_fifth_of_adults_not_looking_for_work__114362018.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# More than a fifth of adults not looking for work

9.
2 million people aged between 16 and 64 in the UK are not in work nor looking for a job.
The total figure is more than 700,000 higher than before the coronavirus pandemic.
The health of the UK economy is in the spotlight with the general election set to be called.

Long-term illness cited as the main reason for about a third of the working-age inactive population not being in the labour force.
Other groups placed in the bracket include students, people who look after family or a home, people with disabilities, and early retired and discouraged workers.
There was an increase in people aged 16 to 34 becoming economically inactive.
But the number aged 35 to 64 had fallen, according to the study.

It added there had also been a fall in the number of people aged 65 and over.
The study was published in the Journal of Economic and Social Research.
Workforce shortages have led to Chancellor Jeremy Hunt setting out a series of measures.
National Insurance Contributions will be reduced from 10% to 8% from 6 April.

Free childcare services for working parents will also be extended.
But business groups say more needs to be done to get more people into work.
Chris Bingham, chief executive of energy supplier Greenarc Ltd in West Yorkshire, said businesses need to think about how to encourage people into the workforce.
He said that people aged 16 to 24 had their education disrupted by the pandemic.

A future government should place tackling skills shortages and increasing labour force participation at the centre of its growth plan, he added.
Work and Pensions Secretary Mel Stride said the UK had a healthy labour market.
He said there was a clear disconnect between the employer and young employees.
The ONS has issued warnings over the reliability of its jobs market data.

Are you among the number of people not actively looking for work?
Tell us your reasons by emailing: haveyoursay@bbc.
co.
uk.

You can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.
co.
uk or tweet us at @BBC_HaveYourSay.
Please include your name, age and location with any submission.

If you are reading this page and can<bb>'t see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-68534537)
