+++
title = "The Papers: 'E coli Boat Race' and 'Euros on terror alert'"
date = 'Sun, 31 Mar 2024 04:43:01 GMT'
description = "University of Oxford rowers criticising sewage levels in the Thames feature on Sunday's front pages."
image = 'The_Papers_E_coli_Boat_Race_and_Euros_on_terror_alert__2802797619.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "finance", "us", "uk", "eu"]
+++

# The Papers: 'E coli Boat Race' and 'Euros on terror alert'

The Sunday Telegraph reflects on the Easter messages of Rishi Sunak and Sir Keir Starmer.
The paper says it is little wonder the two statements are so different, with the Conservatives far behind in the polls.
A separate poll in the Sun on Sunday says that more than 60% of voters oppose attempts to oust Mr Sunak.
No 10 concerned that US election in November will boost publicity for Nigel Farage, the honorary president of Reform UK.

Tory MP Bob Seely says Reform tried to tempt him weeks before former Tory deputy chairman Lee Anderson defected.
But Reform tells the paper it is <bb>"his only chance of saving his skin.
Claire Coutinho says Labour's clean power plan is 'mad, bad and dangerous' She says it would leave the UK over-reliant on Chinese-made metals and batteries.
The Foreign Office says any advice is confidential.

Akshata Murty has been branded a hypocrite for refusing to answer questions about her finances.
The Sunday Mirror reports on huge price hikes on traditional Easter staples.
It cites figures from the Office for National Statistics.
A large bar of chocolate has gone up by 11% since last year.

A roast dinner at a pub or restaurant is now between 7-8% more expensive.


