+++
title = "The outfits: Best actress Emma Stone and others show off classic styles"
date = 'Mon, 11 Mar 2024 02:07:04 GMT'
description = "The fashion is as important as the films at the glittering Hollywood award ceremony."
image = 'The_outfits_Best_actress_Emma_Stone_and_others_show_off_classic_styles__2630553162.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# The outfits: Best actress Emma Stone and others show off classic styles

Emma Stone was among the best-dressed in a custom Louis Vuitton pale mint peplum gown.
Margot Robbie was controversially not nominated for her role in Barbie, but she was one of the fashion winners in a black sequined Versace gown.
America Ferrera wore a shimmering pink gown in a tribute to Barbie.
The singer won best song for her Barbie theme What Was I Made For?

Vine Joy Randolph won best supporting actress for her role in Maestro.
She wore a shimmering periwinkle dress with pom-pom sleeves and a long train.
Bradley Cooper, who was nominated for best actor for Maestro, wore a black suit without a tie but with turquoise buttons.
Jennifer Lawrence brought polka dots to the red carpet with a gorgeous Dior gown.

Zendaya chose a single-strapped striking rose Armani Privé dress with a metallic palm tree pattern.
Florence Pugh strode down the carpet in a sculpted and beaded Del Core design.
Paul Giamatti was among the favourites in the best actor category for his role in The Holdovers.
Lupita Nyong arrived with Stranger Things co-star Joseph Quinn.

Michelle Yeoh wore a silver custom Balenciaga Couture gown.
Ariana Grande channelled Glinda the Good Witch in a custom Giambattista Valli Haute Couture creation.
High School Musical star Vanessa Hudgens revealed her pregnancy.
Andrea Riseborough adapted a Scottish tartan pattern in her polo neck dress.

Grace Linn was probably the oldest person to attend this year<bb>'s ceremony at 101.
Liza Koshy took a tumble on the red carpet but managed to style it out.
British influencer Amelia Dimoldenberg fronted the Oscars<bb>' official social media campaign.
She plumped for a classic full-length dress in pink.

West Side Story star Rita Moreno - who won an Oscar 62 years ago - is 92 years young.
Nai Nai <bb>amp; Wài Pó was nominated for best documentary short.
Martin Scorsese's Killers of the Flower Moon was up for 10 awards but did not end winning any.
The film tells the story of the persecution of the Osage Nation in the 1920s.

The Holdovers: Could it be a new Christmas classic?
American Fiction: White audiences <bb>'too comfortable with black clichés.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68530505)
