+++
title = "Father of US school gunman convicted of manslaughter"
date = 'Fri, 15 Mar 2024 12:12:27 GMT'
description = "For the first time parents are convicted of manslaughter over their child's role in a shooting in the US."
image = 'Father_of_US_school_gunman_convicted_of_manslaughter__3584836654.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Father of US school gunman convicted of manslaughter

James Crumbley, 47, ignored his son Ethan's mental health needs, the trial heard.
He and his wife - who was convicted on the same charges - now both face a maximum of 15 years in prison.
Their son killed fellow students Tate Myre, 16; Hana St Juliana, 14; Madisyn Baldwin, 17, and Justin Shilling, 17.
Hana St Juliana's father said the prosecution of the Crumbleys was just the beginning steps in dealing with gun violence in the US.

Our children are dying on a daily basis in mass murders and we do very little about this,<bb>#34; he added.
We can put people on the Moon, we can build skyscrapers, huge monuments like the Hoover Dam" He did not take even the slightest measures to ensure his son was not a threat.
He gave him a semi-automatic pistol as a gift.
He did not want his son to know he was a danger to himself and others.

He should not have given the gun to his son.
Crumbley did not testify, unlike his wife, who took the stand during her trial and tried to blame her husband.
School officials sent him back to class without checking his backpack, which contained a gun.
When Crumbley heard about the shooting he rushed home from his job as a DoorDash delivery driver, looking for the weapon.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-68572112)
