+++
title = "Neil Young to rejoin Spotify after Joe Rogan row"
date = 'Wed, 13 Mar 2024 09:45:20 GMT'
description = "The star had removed his music in a protest over vaccine misinformation on Joe Rogan's podcast."
image = 'Neil_Young_to_rejoin_Spotify_after_Joe_Rogan_row__2963925996.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC', "india"]
+++

# Neil Young to rejoin Spotify after Joe Rogan row

Young told streaming giant to remove hits like Harvest Moon and Heart of Gold.
The singer said his return did not reflect a reversal of his stance.
Instead, the decision came after Rogan signed a $250m deal to make his podcast available on multiple platforms, rather than remaining a Spotify exclusive.
Young said in January 2022 that Spotify represented 60% of his streaming revenue globally.

He removed his music because he <bb>#34;could not continue to support Spotify<bb>#39;s life-threatening misinformation to the music loving public.
Other artists, including Joni Mitchell and India Arie, also removed their songs.
The long-form shows feature wide-ranging interviews with a variety of guests.
In 2022, the host was forced to apologise for using racist language in early episodes.

He signed a new deal with Spotify last month, under which the programme will become available on YouTube and Apple Music.
Neil Young has criticised Spotify for not offering hi-fi quality, lossless audio to its users.
Most of Spotify<bb>#39;s biggest rivals - including Apple, Tidal, Amazon Music and Qobuz - offer losslessaudio.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-68552631)
