+++
title = "Women 'misled' by clinics over egg freezing chances"
date = 'Wed, 13 Mar 2024 01:48:23 GMT'
description = "Some clinics don't make clear the chances of successfully having a baby, the BBC has found."
image = 'Women_misled_by_clinics_over_egg_freezing_chances__1823068607.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Women 'misled' by clinics over egg freezing chances

The Fertility Network said 41% of clinics offering the service could be breaching advertising guidance.
The UK fertility regulator, the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority, also said it was concerned about the information given to those considering egg freezing.
A successful pregnancy is not guaranteed by the procedure.
There were more than 4,000 egg freezing procedures in the UK in 2021, compared with nearly 400 in 2011.

The procedure is not normally available on the NHS unless you are having medical treatment which could affect your fertility, such as chemotherapy or gender-reassignment.
No two cases are the same and there are many variables which can influence a patient's chance of having a baby.
41% of websites didn't make clear a patient's chance of having a baby.
Most were advertising successful thaw rates of 80-95% - a process where eggs are defrosted to be used in fertility treatments.

Success rates are slightly lower than IVF using fresh eggs - which is about 20-30% per round depending on age.
The BBC spoke to more than 30 women who had undergone the procedure.
They described it as expensive and invasive - but also empowering.
Some of them felt that they had not been properly informed by clinics about the true costs of egg freezing or their chances of success.

The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), the government watchdog, has guidance about the information which should appear on clinic websites.
Natalie moved in with her mum in 2020 to save money for the egg freezing.
Two years later - age 41 - she decided she was ready to become a parent.
She ended up spending £18,500 on medication, two rounds of egg retrieval, two years of storage and IVF treatment.

A spokesperson for the British Fertility Society raised concerns about the use of what he described as ‘unusually high’ defrost rates.
Dr Ippokratis Sarris questioned if the statistics could possibly relate to <bb>#34;a cherry-picked group of patients.
The HFEA says it is the responsibility of the clinics to ensure patients are given all the information they need to be properly informed.
It would like wider regulatory powers to fine clinics.

A spokesperson for the Competition and Markets Authority said that all information provided by fertility clinics must be clear, timely and easy to understand.
You can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.
co.
uk.

Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
You can also get in touch in the following ways:WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet:                 @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or video:    https://www.
facebook.
com/bbchaveYourSay/videos?

v=1<bb>hl=en<bb>tweet=%20BBC%20Have%20Your%20Say%20logo.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-68505321)
