+++
title = "William and Kate 'enormously touched' by public support"
date = 'Sun, 24 Mar 2024 10:55:15 GMT'
description = "They are extremely moved by the public's warmth after the Princess of Wales's cancer news."
image = 'William_and_Kate_enormously_touched_by_public_support__745609092.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "cancer", "us", "uk"]
+++

# William and Kate 'enormously touched' by public support

Catherine revealed in a video message on Friday that she had begun treatment.
The Prince and Princess of Wales are 'enormously touched' by the kind messages.
They are 'grateful' that the public have understood their request for privacy, Kensington Palace said.
Catherine received her diagnosis after tests carried out following abdominal surgery.

A spokesperson for Kensington Palace said: <bb>"The Prince and Princess are both enormously touched by the kind messages from people here in the UK, across the Commonwealth and around the world.
They are extremely moved by the public<bb>'s warmth and support.
The statement recognises the global interest in the princess<bb>'s condition with a nod to the UK, the Commonwealth and the world.
It is a direct appeal for privacy as they try to escape the glare.

Prince William and Catherine have already said they will not attend the service this year, but we may see King Charles III lead the family to church.
I am highly confident that the King, who I know well, is incredibly strong, very resilient, a great spiritual person, so I know he<bb>'ll get through it.
And likewise with the princess, with Kate, I think once they<bb>#38;re through this sticky patch, I Think we<bb>"llget back to normal.


