+++
title = "How do I renew my UK passport and what is the 10-year rule?"
date = 'Thu, 28 Mar 2024 09:28:04 GMT'
description = "UK travellers have been turned away at airports because their passports are not valid for EU travel."
image = 'How_do_I_renew_my_UK_passport_and_what_is_the_10_year_rule__2871822034.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'World'
tags = ['BBC', "us", "uk", "eu"]
+++

# How do I renew my UK passport and what is the 10-year rule?

UK travellers used to be able to carry up to nine months left on an old passport over to a new one.
This meant that a passport could be valid for more than 10 years.
This did not matter when the UK was a member of the European Union (EU).
But the rules changed after Brexit, and the majority of EU countries no longer accept British passports which were issued over 10 years before the date of travel.

The rules apply in all 27 EU countries, except Ireland, which has its own travel arrangements with the UK.
To enter those countries now, your UK passport must:have been issued less than 10 years before the date you enter the EU country.
Be valid for at least three months after the day you plan to leave (ie the <bb>"date of expiry) You must renew your passport before you travel if it has not been used for more than ten years.
The rules also apply to passengers traveling to Iceland, Norway and Switzerland.

You can apply for a new passport online or by filling in a paper application.
You must also have a digital photo of yourself to apply.
It should take up to three weeks to renew a passport in the UK.
It can take longer during periods of high demand, such as before school holidays.

It currently costs £82.
50 to renew or replace your passport if you apply online and £93 if you fill in a paper form.
A standard online application for an adult will cost £88.
50, or £57.

50 for a child.
A child<bb>'s passport costs £53.
50 if you apply online.
Postal applications will cost $100 for adults or £69 for children.

Passports are free for people born on or before 2 September 1929.


