+++
title = 'Police officer drags homeless man along ground'
date = 'Mon, 04 Mar 2024 21:05:25 GMT'
description = 'The officer is also seen deliberately treading on the mans stomach in footage obtained by BBC News.'
image = 'Police_officer_drags_homeless_man_along_ground__1153746510.png'
keywrods =  []
tags = "BBC" 
categories = "World" 
+++

# Police officer drags homeless man along ground

CNN.
com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery.
Please submit your best shots of the U.
S.

for next week.
Visit CNN.
com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.
Please share your best photos of the United States with CNN iReport.

Footage shows a police officer dragging a rough sleeper along the ground.
The officer was then seen deliberately treading on the man<bb>'s stomach.
Greater Manchester Police said the incident must not be repeated.
Homeless charity Crisis said it was 'appalling and degrading' In November a man sleeping in an underpass in Birmingham was set alight.

In December footage emerged of security guards at a McDonald<bb>'s restaurant in London soaking a rough sleeper.
The incident is believed to be the latest in a string of similar incidents.
The Sudanese man who was dragged by the officer said he had now found accommodation and had received an apology from the force.
In a statement GMP said: <bb>"The officer<bb>'s behaviour fell below the standards we expect, especially concerning respect for all members of the community.

The superintendent responsible for the city centre personally discussed the incident with the officer.
He made it clear that her actions were unacceptable and must not be repeated.
She, along with other employees, received refresher training on how to deal with similar situations in the future.
For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-manchester-68474637)
