+++
title = 'I spent my 18th birthday wishing my missing mum would come home'
date = 'Mon, 04 Mar 2024 18:03:13 GMT'
description = 'Khasha Smith missed her daughter Calleys 18th birthday, which family said was out of character.'
image = 'I_spent_my_18th_birthday_wishing_my_missing_mum_would_come_home__1725223478.png'
keywrods =  []
tags = "BBC" 
categories = "Entertainment" 
+++

# 'I spent my 18th birthday wishing my missing mum would come home'

Mother-of-three Khasha has been missing since October.
She was last seen at the flat she shared with her partner in Edinburgh.
Officers have searched a nearby canal and nearby woodland.
Police say she was last in contact with her family in November.

For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.
Kasha Calley said she was desperate to hug her mother.
She added that it was out of character for Kasha to miss a significant milestone in her life.
Calley: "It feels like I<bb>'m living the worst dream I could ever imagine" Khasha is described as being about 5ft tall, with long, blonde hair, blue eyes and a slim build.

She has several tattoos, one of which, bearing the word <bb>"forever, is visible on her right wrist.
She is known to frequently visit the Broomhouse, Gorgie and Wester Hailes areas.
Officers investigating Khasha<bb>'s banking activity as part of the probe.
No one has been interviewed as a suspect during the investigation.

An online portal has been launched allowing the public to submit information directly to officers.
Officers are keeping an open mind, and continue to hope Khasha will be found safe.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-68473051)
