+++
title = "Lost power, mayday call and crash before collapse"
date = 'Tue, 26 Mar 2024 22:31:43 GMT'
description = "Minutes after a container ship sent a mayday call, it crashed and caused a bridge to collapse. Six people are presumed dead."
image = 'Lost_power_mayday_call_and_crash_before_collapse__4123285846.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "india", "economy", "us"]
+++

# Lost power, mayday call and crash before collapse

The Dali, a massive 948ft (289m) container ship, completely lost power after leaving the port of Baltimore.
It was hurtling towards the city<bb>'s iconic Francis Scott Key Bridge.
By the time the crew of the Dali realised what was happening, it was already far too late.
Multiple alarms rang out as the crew ran unsuccessful tests.

Local pilot told the crew to steer the rudder hard to port and drop anchor.
Emergency generator is believed to have kicked in, but the ship never regained the use of its engines.
Shortly before 01:30 (05:30 GMT), they issued a mayday call warning authorities that a collision was imminent.
Maryland Governor Wes Moore later hailed the crew as <bb>"heroes.

Authorities were able to stop the flow of vehicle traffic on to the bridge in the two minutes between the call and the collision.
It did not, however, stop what happened when the Dali slammed into a concrete column on the bridge.
The US Coast Guard said in the late evening on Tuesday that it had concluded the men had died and intended to suspend its massive search and rescue effort.
Local media had reported that the six workers were citizens of Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador.

All 22 crew on the ship were Indian - the country is a major player in the global seafaring industry.
What exactly led to the loss of power on board the Dali remains unclear.
Investigators will now seek to examine data from a voyage data recorder.
Residents of the diverse and strongly working-class areas near the bridge expressed shock at the scene they had woken up to.

The massive cargo ship, carrying at least 3,000 containers, was wedged between the debris of the collapsed bridge.
By then, the entire area had become the scene of a massive search and rescue effort.
Police boats criss-crossed the river and police and Coast Guard helicopters flew overhead.
Maryland Senator Ben Cardin said the re-opening of the waterway would be critical for the US economy.

The port is a key regional hub for goods ranging from steel and aluminium to agricultural equipment.
Data from the Maryland Port Administration shows the port handled at least 750,000 vehicles last year.
Officials have so far declined to comment on any potential timeline for that to happen.
Authorities say that, for now, they are fully focused on the search and rescue operation.

US President Joe Biden said he had commuted over the bridge 'many, many times' and vowed to 'move heaven and earth' As night fell on Tuesday, the ship and its load of 3,000 containers remained on the Patapsco River, its nose stuck between the mangled debris of the bridge it brought down in seconds.
Mr Moore, for his part, said only that the recovery process <bb>"will not be short.


