+++
title = "Bridgerton star goes from screen to stage"
date = 'Wed, 13 Mar 2024 01:59:16 GMT'
description = "Charithra Chandran will make her West End debut in a one-woman play about rollercoaster teenage emotions."
image = 'Bridgerton_star_goes_from_screen_to_stage__385384391.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = 'Entertainment'
tags = ['BBC']
+++

# Bridgerton star goes from screen to stage

Charithra Chandran stars as Edwina Sharma in Netflix hit Bridgerton.
27-year-old also appeared in spy thriller Alex Rider and How to Date Billy Walsh.
Has a degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics, but it wasn<bb>#39;t enough to pull her away.
Her success was never guaranteed, and her family haven<bb>#39;t always been on board with her chosen profession, even though the signs were always there.

I see myself as a failure and I<bb>#38;m constantly failing and trying to dig myself out of a hole,<bb>#34; she says.
Charithra is starring in a one-woman play based on the book of the same name.
Her character navigates the rollercoaster of teenage emotions following the unexpected death of her sister.
Although it touches on serious issues, Charithra says it<bb>#39;s <bb>#34;ultimately a comedy which shows how you can overcome challenges.

Charithra hopes the play reaches audiences in the South Asian community.
I think this will enable those difficult conversations to be had, and parents and children to be more honest with each other," she says.
She sees herself as carrying on the work of other actors who have paved a way for her.
She credits her family for keeping things real and grounded.

Anyone who follows Charithra on social media will see lots of content related to them and her culture.
She says: "One of the most beautiful things about South Asian culture is that we<bb>#39;re not super individualistic" Charithra says she sometimes forgets about her glitzy day job until she sees herself on a billboard.
34;And I<bb>#39;m so grateful for that, because I live a very normal life.
Instructions for a Teenage Armageddon will be at the Garrick Theatre from Sunday 17 March.


[Read More](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/newsbeat-68536802)
