+++
title = "Man who stabbed victim in neck jailed for 28 years"
date = 'Fri, 22 Mar 2024 13:47:10 GMT'
description = "James Smith stabbed Ashley Sarsero in the neck before taunting him as he lay bleeding."
image = 'Man_who_stabbed_victim_in_neck_jailed_for_28_years__3380854954.png'
keywrods =  []
categories = ''
tags = ['BBC', "drug", "us"]
+++

# Man who stabbed victim in neck jailed for 28 years

James Smith, 36, of Llanelli, stabbed Ashley Sarsero, 26, in the neck.
Smith was handed a life sentence and told he would serve a minimum of 28 years in jail before being eligible for parole.
He was jailed at Swansea Crown Court.
Steven Morgan, also 36, was sentenced to four-and-a-half years for helping Smith flee the scene.

The jury in the three-week trial heard Smith and Morgan had been invited into Mr Sarsero<bb>#39;s home in the Maestir area of Felinfoel by his mother.
Smith admitted to having cocaine and various other drugs in his system at the time.
He then proceeded to taunt his victim, saying <bb>#34;cry to your mammy' Smith turned himself in to the police the following day.
He attempted to cover his tracks by washing and disposing of items that might link him to the incident.

The court heard that Smith had been on bail for brandishing a knife in a Llanelli pub in June 2022.
He had also claimed to have been in possession of a gun and bullets.
Judge Daniel Williams said he had to take this separate incident into consideration.
He also said Smith had dozens of other previous offences which ranged from theft and assault to attempted robbery with a machete.

Half of Smith<bb>#39;s time will be served in custody and the rest on licence in the community.
Judge Williams told Morgan he should have concentrated on helping Mr Sarsero as he lay injured.
He added that half of Smith and Morgan's time would be serving in custody.


